=pod

=head1 NAME

Dada Mail

=head1 INTRODUCTION

Dada Mail is a completely contemporary, mature and intuitive web-based
e-mail list management system, which runs on most any Unix-like hosting
account that can run custom CGI scripts.

Dada Mail handles Closed-Loop Opt-in/Opt-out subscriptions, sending
complex announce-only and/or discussion mailing list messages with an
advanced, fault-tolerant mass mailing monitor, supports the
archiving/viewing/searching/resending/syndicating (rss, atom feeds,
Twitter) of sent messages and doing all this and a whole lot more with
style.

Dada Mail can handle custom subscriber fields and you can use the
information it captures for partial list sending based on a query and
Dada Mail's email templating system allows you to create targeted and
completely custom email messages for each and every one one of your
subscribers.

Dada Mail is bundled with additional plugins and extensions to extend
Dada Mail's capabilities. Some of the plugins/extensions support
advanced bounce handling, clickthrough tracking, mass mail scheduling,
blog interfaces of archived messages, AJAX subscription form trickery
and lots of other surprises.

Dada Mail produces XHTML valid web content and sticks to best practices
when creating email messages. Write Once: Distribute Everywhere. Dada
Mail is free software that you're able to use, modify, share and enhance
under the terms of the GNU General Public License. Dada Mail is written
in Perl because we love Perl.

By Justin Simoni

And the Dada Mailers 

=head1 HOMEPAGE

http://dadamailproject.com

=head1 INSTALLING 

This release of Dada Mail needs 4 variables changed in the Config.pm 
file that's located in the DADA directory. Installation instructions are 
available at: 

http://dadamailproject.com/installation/

Detailed configuration instructions are found inside the Config.pm:

http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/Config.pm.html

Advanced Installation Instructions: 

http://dadamailproject.com/purchase/sample_chapter-dada_mail_setup.html

=head1 UPGRADING

See: 

http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/UPGRADE_README.pod.html

In a nutshell, upgrading involves moving the, "dada" directory in the cgi-bin
and putting the new version of the, "dada" directory. ALL files have to be
replaced - don't make exceptions. Finally, configure the new copy similar 
to the old copy. 

=head1 DOCUMENTATION

See: 

http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation

Version-specific documentation is located in this distribution, under: 

dada/extras/documentation/html_version

directory. Just open up 'index.html' in a web browser.

=head1 SUPPORT

=over

=item * Boards: 

http://dadamailproject.com/support/boards

=item * Discussion Mailing List: 

http://dadamailproject.com/cgi-bin/dada/mail.cgi/list/dadadev/	

=back 

=head2 See Also: Documentation Links above.

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT 

Copyright (c) 1999-2010
Justin Simoni 
http://justinsimoni.com 
All rights reserved. 

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
