=pod

=head1 Building Dada Mail from Source Repository 

I<(intented for advanced users and/or developers)>


Dada Mail's github repository is public, 
and it is possible to build a working distribution of Dada Mail from it. 

Dada Mail's Github repository is found here, 

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/>

Unless you know exactly what you're doing, you probably want to build a distribution from a known release. 
Releases are found here: 

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/releases> 

Find the release you want to build your own distributon from, and download that release.
The easiest way is to download the sourcecode under, B<Assets>.

I<Note: In these examples, we'll be using "dada_mail.tar.gz" as the name of the download.> 

Once you've downloaded the source, uncompress the download, 

	tar -cvf dada_mail.tar.gz

then, change into that directory, 

	cd dada-mail

Within that directory, you'll find a script called, C<make_distro.pl>. 
This is the script that will do the heavy lifting.
Simply run the script: 

	 perl ./make_distro.pl

This script will pull resources needed from all other repositories (this may take a few minutes), and create the actual distribution for Dada Mail. 
Once done, the script will print out something like the following: 

	./distribution/dada_mail.tar.gz
	./distribution/uncompress_dada.cgi

These two files, located in the, C<distribution> directory, are the complete build of Dada Mail. 

You can now use these two files to install a copy of Dada Mail, using either of the two directions we have: 

=head3 Install Dada Mail w/Dada Mail Installer

L<https://dadamailproject.com/d/install_dada_mail.pod.html>

=head3 Install Dada Mail, Command Line Interface

L<https://dadamailproject.com/d/install_dada_mail_cl.pod.html>

Use the just-created files in place of the resources listed in the docs. 

=head2 Advanced

Of course you don't have to use a release of ours as the source of your distribution. You can use any branch, tag, etc of git to build your distribution from. 
You can also fork the Dada Mail github repository to create your own, 
and do your own development and releases from there. 

=head3 Changing the Source of the Other Github Assets

If you want to set an alternative to the sources used in Dada Mail for the various repositories, you may do so in the source of the C<make_distro.pl> script. 

Look for the variables named, C<$github_repos>, C<$github_releases>, and C<$maxmind_dbs> which should be self-explanitory. 

