=pod

=head1 Migration/Moving Dada Mail

=head2 Introduction

Moving Dada Mail between servers will basically require you to move three sets of Things:

=over

=item * Dada Mail, "The App" 

This is the directory named, C<dada>

=item * .dada_files directory 

=item * the SQL database

=back

Once you've migrated over these three items, you will need to reconfigure Dada Mail for
the new environment. 

=head2 Old Server: Download 

=head2 Download Dada Mail, "The App" 

First, download Dada Mail, "The App". This will most likely be the directory named, B<dada>, that's located in your B<cgi-bin> directory.
It'll be the same directory that contains the, B<mail.cgi> file, when you map the URL of Dada Mail to the server path. 

For example, if the URL to Dada Mail is: 

I<http://example.com/cgi-bin/dada/mail.cgi> 

You'll know that you're, B<dada> directory is located in your B<cgi-bin> direcotry. Download that B<dada> directory. 

=head2 Download the .dada_files directory

Download the, C<.dada_files> directory - 
it's usually locaed in your home directory,
 and the path to this directory is a part of your C<$PROGRAM_CONFIG_FILE_DIR> variable.

For example, if that variable is set to, 

I</home/youraccount/.dada_files/.configs> 

Download the directory, I</home/youraccount/.dada_files> 

=head2 Export the SQL Database

=head2 New Server: Upload Stuff

Now, you basically just have to upload everything you just downloaded. 

=head2 Upload Dada Mail, "The App" 

We again suggest to upload the, I<dada> directory into the new account's I<cgi-bin>. 

=head2 Upload the .dada_files directory

We suggest placing this directory in your home directory. 

=head2 Import the SQL Database

head2 New Server: Reconfigure the app

Once everything is in place, you'll need to now reconfigure Dada Mail to work in your new environment, as paths will probably be different, and SQL login information will have been updated. 

Drop back into the installer using the following directions, 

L<https://dadamailproject.com/d/install_dada_mail.pod.html#Making-Additional-Global-Configuration-Changes-using-the-Dada-Mail-Installer> 

You may need to adjust the Program URL, The dada_mail_support_files directory, as well as your MySQL login information. 

Once these values are correct, finish up the installation process as before. 

=cut
