=pod

=head1 Dada Mail Changelog 3.0 - 3.1

=head1 Features

=head2 Subscriber Profiles

Please see the docs specifical about Dada Mail Subscriber Profiles:

L<http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/feature-profiles.pod.html>

=head2 Subscriber Profile Field Labels

You can now have a, "Label" to your Subscriber Profile Field. A label is what's 
visibly shown and is not now created from the field's name. 

=head2 Clone Settings

You can now clone the settings from one list, to another list, in the, "Create a New List" screen. 

=head2 Remove All Subscribers

You can now Remove all subscribers at once in the, I<Manage List - View Subscribers> screen. 

=head2 prototype.js/Scriptalicious Support

For the most part, AJAX stuff in Dada Mail has been replaced by the prototype.js 
and Scriptalicious Javascript Libraries. 

=head2 Black List Matching

If it wasn't clear or official before, it should be now:

The black list matching does not work with matching strings, but will only work to 
match the user or domain of an email address or the entire email address. These are valid black list entries: 

=over

=item * matchthis@

=item * @matchthis

=item * matchthis 

=item * matchthis@example.com

=back

=head2 UTF-8 Support and Correctly Encoding Email Message Headers

See the separate docs on UTF-8 support: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/features-UTF-8.pod.html>

=head2 Multiple List Sending

Support has be re-introduced to allow Multiple List Sending. See the separate docs on this feature: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/feature-multiple_list_sending.pod.html>

=head1 CPAN Perl Libraries 

The CPAN Perl Libraries needed for Dada Mail are now being saved withint the 
Git Repository of Dada Mail. We don't know if this is the greatest idea, since we don't 
really plan on making changes to this modules. But, we're doing it. If any problems 
occur, please report!

=head2 Mass Subscriptions

There's now an option to disable mass subscriptions. 

=head2 Plugins - Dada Bridge

Simple moderation support is included, to Authorized to moderate messages. 

=head2 Plugins - Clickthrough Tracker

The Clickthrough Tracker now has a new SQL backend option for the URL redirect list. 

The log is still in PlainText. 

=head1 API

There are many new modules in Dada Mail's backend, including: 

=over

=item * DADA::Profile

=item * DADA::Profile::Fields

=item * DADA::Profile::Session

=item * DADA::ProfileFieldsManager

=item * DADA::MailingList::Subscriber

=item * DADA::MailingList::Subscriber::Validate

=back

=head1 Configuration and API Incompatibilities

A few. See the separeate docs on this subject: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/dada3_0_to_dada3_1.pod.html>


=cut
