=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 Dada Mail Changelog for v8.x

=head1 8.4.0

=head2 Dada Mail Manual revision

The Dada Mail Manual has been revised for the v8.4.0 release. The following chapters have been updated, to include up to date information on Dada Mail's new features, like recurring schedules. 

=over

=item * Send a Message

=item * Send a URL

=back

=head2 Features

=head3 Recurring Scheduled Mass Mailing Enhancements

Dada Mail supports sending out mass mailings on a specific predetermined date and time, as well as on a recurring schedule; where the start and end date, time, and day may be set. 

Now, Dada Mail also supports  sending the next edition of a recurring scheduled mass mailing only if the content differs from the previously sent out message.

This can be useful - consider the following scenario: 

You're sending out a web page and this page is only be periodically updated - say it's the index page of a blog. You only want to send it out, if there's been new entries posted. Using this feature, you would set up your recurring schedule and only when the page is updated will a new edition of the mass mailing be sent out. 

=head3 Send a Webpage: Send a Cropped Webpage

Dada Mail now has supports sending only a cropped portion of the webpage's content. All you will need to do is specify the HTML tag Dada Mail should look for, when searching for the content. The rest of the page will not be included as part of the message. 

This can be helpful, if the original of the message you would like to send is a full blown page from a website, but you would rather not send the entire page as such a message would not render well as a email message. 

=head3 Send a Webpage: PlainText version via URL

Much like fetching the HTML version of your message by URL, you may do the same with the PlainText version as well. 

=head3 Tracker Plugin: Tracking the User Agent

Dada Mail's Tracker plugin is useful in collecting a lot of information about activity related to your mass mailings: information like opens, clickthroughs, unsubscribers and bounces and logged and reported using this plugin. 

Dada Mail now tracks and reports on the user agent (the app used: like your browser or mail client) that's being used to open, and view clickthroughs. This feature is currently in a rough form, but a pie chart is now available in the Tracker plugin for each mailing list message you've sent out showing what user agent was being used for both opens and clickthroughs. We're investigating the best way to display this information, but thought best to introduce it, as it is. In the future, 

=head3 Bounce Handler Plugin: Optimizations

Bounce Handler bogs down if you have a large number of lists, with a large number of subscribers, and a large number of bounces from this list. Processing bounces in this setup is fairly intense. We've made some modifications to the plugin to handle this scenario in a more optimized way. 

=head2 Bugfixes

=head3 List Names set the same as List Email sometimes interpreted as an email address in From:, To: headers

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/512>

=head1 8.3.0

=head2 Summary

This is a feature release, relating to features first introduced in the v8 series of Dada Mail. We're building upon those features, and making them more useful. 

=head2 Features

=head3 Magic User Templates Enhancements

We've added I<four> new options, when creating your Magic User Templates. They're there to help with compatibility with your already existing site design. 

These four options control how Dada Mail inserts its own Javascript into the template. Since it's basing the template off your already existing site design it's possible that some of the JavaScript libraries required, like jQuery, are already included within your page. If so, there's no need to add them again - doing so could potentially disrupt functionality on your site or inadvertainly change the design of your page. 

More can be learned about Magic User Templates in Dada Mail's documentation on Advanced Installation Configuration options in the Dada Mail Installer. These options are available in Pro Dada: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/d/install_dada_mail-advanced_configuration.pod.html#Configure-Global-Template-Options>

=head3 Send a Webpage: grab the Subject of a message, from the Title of the Webpage

Rather than setting the Subject of a message manually when sending a webpage, you can tell Dada Mail to use the title of the webpage as the Subject of the message. 

This can be used to easily have a dynamic message subject, when sending out a recurring scheduled mass mailing. 

Look for this feature in the B<Mass Mailing - Send a Webpage> screen

=head2 Bugfixes

=head3  Archived message file attachments cannot always be downloaded 

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/509>

=head3  Installer: incorrect javasript filename being called

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/510>

=head3  List Invitations: Multiple invites are allowed to be sent to the same address

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/511>
 
=head2 Changes

=head3 jQuery and jQuery Libraries updated

Dada Mail relies on jQuery and many independent jquery plugins to enhance its user experience. We've upgraded jQuery to v1.11.3, as well as updating the Colorbox plugin to v1.6.1. This should help with compatibility when using Dada Mail's Magic User Templates feature. 

=head1 8.2.0

=head2 Features

=head3 Recurring Scheduled Mass Mailings

Recurring Scheduled Mass Mailings have been integrated into the core of Dada Mail, having only been available before in the now retired Beatitude plugin. 

Set a beginning and end date of your mass mailings, the time they should all go out, and the days of the week that you would like the mailings to be sent. 

More information on Single and Recurring Scheduled Mass Mailings can be found here: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/d/features-scheduled_mass_mailings.pod.html>

=head2 Bugfixes 

=head3 Unsubscription Requests Do Not Work in the List Control Panel

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/508>

=head3 CC addresses not removed from bridge email when using SES

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/507>

=head1 8.1.0

=head2 Summary

This release primarily introduces Magic User Templates as an experimental feature. 

=head2 Features

=head3 Magic User Templates (Experimental) 

Magic Templates allow you to simply set a URL to fetch a webpage, which will then be utilized as your global user template. Various options to adjust the output of your template are available, all of which are available in the included Dada Mail Installer's Advanced Configuration: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/d/install_dada_mail-advanced_configuration.pod.html#Configure-Global-Template-Options>

=head1 8.0.3

=head2 Summary

This is a bugfix release of Dada Mail.

=head2 Bugfixes

=head3 Problems creating new list if errors present in values passed 

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/506>

=head3 Subscription Form: Restful Subscribe API not working in jsonp mode 

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/505>

=head3  Membership >> Remove Subscribers throws, "Yikes!" error when you attempt to upload a file

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/504>

=head3  Tracker plugin: Bounce Handler reports do not show in modal window 

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/503>

=head3 Images don't show in archive view in Chrome

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/502>

=head3 Gravatar Images break with p.p. mode enabled
 
L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/500>

=head3  Minimal Subscription Form does not have correct form field name 

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/499>

=head3 Version Check Broken

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/498>

=head3  Rejected Emails not being attached

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/496>

=head3  Extra Bracket in multiple_subscribe.cgi 

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/495>

=head1 8.0.2

=head2 Summary

This is a bugfix release of Dada Mail.

=head2 Bugfixes

=head3 Amazon SES 

Recently, Amazon SES seems to have slightly changed the way it has been returning results to its API calls, 
specifically when finding your daily email sending quotas. This change has caused problems with Dada Mail's 
method of setting its auto-batching capabilities. (fixed) 

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/491>

=head3 Installer

Advanced Options to set the Confirmation Token expiration date were not being written to the global configuration. (fixed) 

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/492>

=head1 8.0.1

=head2 Summary

This is a bugfix release of Dada Mail, but touches upon a multitude of problems uncovered after the release of v8.0.0 of Dada Mail.

=head2 Enhancements 

=head3 Admin Menu: Tracker, Mass Mailing Options

Both the Tracker and Mass Mailing Options link in the admin menu will show additional information that reflects data and settings of your mailing list

Tracker will show the number of mass mailing campaigns that have been analyzed in the Tracker plugin. 

Mass Mailing Options will show your current batch sending speeds in messages per hour. 

=head2 Bugfixes

=head3 Bridge

Several problems with encoding have been found in Bridge, most notably when a message in 8bit Content Transfer Encoding and UTF-8 Encoding is sent. Messages are, by default, handled in a different Content Transfer Encoding (quoted-printable), which is basically 7bit. Problem happens if you try to work with these two Content Transfer Encodings together - basically corruption of text. 

To counteract this, messages received by Bridge are first changed to whatever the internal Content Transfer Encoding is, then processed as usual. 

=head3 Archives w/Inline File Attachments

Somewhat related to Bridge, archives with inline file attachments wouldn't  show up correctly. (fixed)

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/482>

=head3 Multiple Subscribe Extension Script

Subscription confirmation in the C<multiple_subscribe.cgi> extension script would fail, if you have a Profile Field that is required, even if it's submitted with the form. (fixed)

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/481>

=head3 Profiles

Profiles had several issues: 

=over

=item * Logging in, after subscription

After a subscription is made, the subscriber should be logged into their profile right afterwards (via a session cookie) and able to visit their profile via the really big button presented to them, without having to know their current login information. This was broken (fixed). 

Also, when this was broken, it wasn't clear why things didn't work, as no useful error message was presented (fixed). 

=item * HTML formatting

Several errors in the HTML was present in the Profile Home screen, leading to some of the interface to be broken. (fixed)

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/479>

=item * Logging In

There seemed also to be a problem with merely logging into you Profile in some instances. (fixed)

=item * Registering an already-existing account

It was also called to our attention that you could still attempt to register an already existing account, even though there's a check in place to hault such an action. (fixed)

=back

=head3 Send a Webpage

Many problems have cropped up in the Send a Webpage screen, some having to do with problems with encoding (again), and others, when specific types of data are included in the webapge, including linked stylesheets. This would ultimately cause a sending to fail. (fixed)

Send a Webpage also suffered from a problem with using the option to set a custom PlainText alternative - seems as if that option was never correctly utlized, and the auto-generated version would always be used (fixed)

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/485>

=head3 List Invitations

Like most administration list control panel screens in Dada Mail, the List Invitation screen can be disabled, if you are logged in with the List Password. That's done in the list control panel screen, I<Your List Control Panel - Customize Feature Set>

List Invitation doesn't have its screen available in the menu, so it's a little bit of a quess on how to fully disable this. The way it should work is by disabling, I<Membership - Invite/Subscribe/Add>, but this does not work - rather disabling I<Mail Sending - Mass Mailing Options> did this trick, which is nonsensical. (fixed)

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/486>

=head3 Subscription Confirmation URL Redirect

The URL redirect after a subscription confirmation led to a blank page (fixed) 

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/488>

=head3 Installer: Setting .dada_files location

It seems that there was a bug related to setting a custom location for the C<.dada_files> directory location. Your custom choice would 
not be tried out, although the installer would come back and tell you that what you've chosen won't work - maddening. (fixed) 

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/480>

=head3 Log Viewer 

Looks like the Log Viewer plugin always thinks you're logged in w/the List Password, even if you're logged in w/the Root Pass. There's some other oddities I'll also address. (fixed)

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/489>

=head3 Problems logging out, changing List Password

Changing the List Password works, but you will refresh to a server error screen. Seems there's some problem with the logout() method that seems to be touched quite a few times in the code. (fixed)

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/490>

=cut
