=pod

=head1 Dada Mail Changelog for version 3.x.x

=head2 3.0.5

=head2 Download

See the Dada Mail download page: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/download>

Huzzah! 

=head2 Bug Fixes

=over

=item * BUGFIX: Plugin_URL needs to be used in both forms, not just one. - ID: 2848712

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&aid=2848712&group_id=13002&atid=113002

Hat tip:  http://sourceforge.net/users/billpowell/

=item * BUGFIX:  2858688  	 3.0.4 - charset not set in multipart/* message *parts*

https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&aid=2858688&group_id=13002&atid=113002

This fixes the problem for the, "Send a List Message" screen, both when create an HTML message (with no PlainText version) and when you create an HTML and PlainText Message.

=item * BUGFIX: 3.0.4 - unable to mass-add black list addresses - ID: 2858250

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=2858250&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=back 


=head2 3.0.4

=head2 Download 3.0.4

=over

=item * tar.gz

http://downloads.sourceforge.net/mojomail/dada-3_0_4.tar.gz?use_mirror=voxel

=item * zip

http://downloads.sourceforge.net/mojomail/dada-3_0_4.zip?use_mirror=voxel

=back


=head2 Changes 3.0.4

This release focuses almost soley on bug fixes and ease of upgrading from previous versions, most especially, version 3.0.23 (the last stable release) and earlier versions. 

=head2 Default List Setting Changes 3.0.4

We've changed one list setting in Dada Mail, 3.0.4, C<enable_mass_subscribe>. It's now set to, C<0>. 

C<enable_mass_subscribe> changes the behaviour of Dada Mail and when set to, C<0> you won't be able to mass-subscribe subscribers, via the list control panel. 

Do not fret. 

You may enable the mass-subscription of subscribers in the list control panel,  by logging into the list control panel with the Dada Mail Root Password and going to: I<Manage List Control Panel - Options> and checking the option labeled, I<Enable, "Subscribe Checked Subscribers" button in the, Manage Subscribers -> Add -> Verify> screen. 

You may also enable this feature by default globally in the C<Config.pm> file, in the C<%LIST_SETUP_DEFAULTS> variable (look for the key, C<enable_mass_subscribe> and change its value to, C<1> 

There are really good reasons why you should not mass-subscribe people except for importing an already existing and I<verified> list. Other than that, it should never, ever be used and we'd like to hit that point home, as people, who shall remain nameless, can't possibly get a clue on why it could be a bad idea. It's 2009, by the way. 

We've written a very well thought out response and encourage you to follow good measures when adding people to your mailing list: 

http://dadamailproject.com/installation/using_dada_mail.html#subscriptions

If you cannot follow this, than maybe Dada Mail is not for you. Once again, this option can be re-enabled easily and is only disabled to give you pause and perhaps allow you to think about just what you're going to get yourself into, if you go mass-subscribing addresses without first properly validating and verifying the addresses. With that, we honestly wash our hands of this issue. 

This setting also makes it easy to globally and irrevocably disable the feature of mass-subscription of unverified addresses, by adding this list setting to the C<%LIST_SETUP_OVERRIDE> variable, like this: 

%LIST_SETUP_OVERRIDES = (
	enable_mass_subscribe => 0, 
); 

Of course, such a decision would have to be made by the person installing the program, or, providing the program for easy installation. 

=head2 CPAN Modules 3.0.4

=over

=item * LWP upgraded to: 5.827

LWP is a key module distribution for the, "Send a Webpage" functionality of Dada Mail.

=item * CGI::Sessoion upgrade to: 4.41

CGI::Session handles all session management in Dada Mail. 

=item * List-Utils Scalar-Utils

The CPAN perl modules, Scalar::Util and List::Util are included with Dada Mail, but aren't actively used, so that any 
server-wide installed versions will be used, instead. This is because the XS versions of these modules are needed for POP/SMTP 
SSL connections and having these usable by default, breaks SSL connections. The directories, 

 dada/DADA/perllib/List

and, 

 dada/DADA/perllib/Scalar

have been renamed, 

 dada/DADA/perllib/List-remove_to_install

and, 

 dada/DADA/perllib/Scalar-remove_to_install

renaming them back to their original name will make them, "active"

=back

=head2 Bug Fixes 3.0.4

=over

=item * 2817601  	 3.0.3 - grammar: your/you're in error_black_listed_screen.tm

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues

=item *  2816670  	 3.0.3 - External .dada_config not setting variable 

https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&aid=2816670&group_id=13002&atid=113002

(remember to still set the variable in the outside config file to, C<2>!

=item * 2769423  	 3.0.3 - Msg size always reported

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&aid=2769423&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 3.0.3 If a current subscriber attempts to subscribe again...

https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=2778910&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2784714  	 3.0.3 - specific list_settings not webified in HTML emails

https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&aid=2784714&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2768141  	 3.0.0 - mistake in sub erase_score_card

https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&aid=2768141&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *   2791876  	 3.0.3 - spaces in attachment filenames make file unviewable

https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&aid=2791876&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2791550 3.0.3 - Undefined subroutine _mime_headers_from_string

https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&aid=2791550&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  2791304  	 Discussion list spam vulnerability

https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&aid=2791304&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  2790606 3.0.3 - Can't use string ("xxxxxxxx") as a HASH ref

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&aid=2790606&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=back

=head2 3.0.3

=head2 Download 3.0.3

=over

=item * tar.gz

http://downloads.sourceforge.net/mojomail/dada-3_0_3.tar.gz?use_mirror=voxel

=item * zip

http://downloads.sourceforge.net/mojomail/dada-3_0_3.zip?use_mirror=voxel

=back

=head2 Changes 3.0.3

This release focuses almost soley on bug fixes and ease of upgrading from previous versions, most especially, version 3.0.2 (the last stable release), 3.0.1 and 3.0.0. 

This is similar to the 3.0.2 release and the same notes apply. 


=head2 Bug Fixes 3.0.3

=over

=item * 2670414  	 3.0.2 - Archive, but don't Send broken for Send a Webpage

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2670414&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 3.0.2 - "Subscription Cookbook" see also link broken

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2660673&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2660652  	 3.0.2 -filter_subscribers_w_meta docs use wrong code example

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2660652&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 3.0.2 - Session info always uses default driver

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2592671&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  2563003 3.0.2 - large msgs choke Dada Bridge on processing

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=2563003&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2520821 3.0.2 - Archive Back Date missing option for year 2009

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2520821&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2489198  	 3.0.2 - Dadaized-FormMail - subscription API out of date

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2489198&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2489192  	 3.0.2 - Dadaized-FormMail - Config.pm variable $MAILPROG...

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2489192&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2481213  	 3.0.2 - Dada Mail broken without DBI module

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2481213&group_id=13002&atid=113002


=back

=head2 3.0.2

=head2 Download 3.0.2

=over

=item * tar.gz

http://downloads.sourceforge.net/mojomail/dada-3_0_2.tar.gz?use_mirror=voxel

=item * zip

http://downloads.sourceforge.net/mojomail/dada-3_0_2.zip?use_mirror=voxel

=back

=head2 Changes 3.0.2

This release focuses almost soley on bug fixes and ease of upgrading from previous versions, most especially, version 3.0.1 (the last stable release) and 3.0.0. This is similar to the 3.0.1 release and the same notes apply. 


=head2 Bug Fixes 3.0.2

=over

=item * 2472382  	 3.0.1 - login form broken if all lists are hidden

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2472382&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2473631  	 3.0.1 - Wrong date in schedules

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2473631&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  3.0.1 - wrong URL in docs - email_sending.pod.html

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2471846&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2460735  	 3.0.1 - simple [tmpl_if ...] usage breaks sending

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2460735&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2446770  	 3.0.1 - $SHOW_EMAIL_LIST Config variable does NOTHING

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2446770&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2432591  	 3.0.1 - $MAILING_FINISHED_MESSAGE* vars not .dada_configable

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2432591&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2368754  	 3.0.1 - CGI::Ajax module out of date

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2368754&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2375488  	 3.0.0 - Control Panel - "test" option fails to work? 

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2375488&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 3.0.1 - messages bounced by Bluehost's qmail-send not parsed

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2381461&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2409945  	 3.0.1 - Can't use an undefined value as a symbol reference

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2409945&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 3.0.1 - Mass Mailings broken because of faulty Reply-To?

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2415194&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=back




=head2 3.0.1

=head2 Download 3.0.1

=over

=item * tar.gz

http://downloads.sourceforge.net/mojomail/dada-3_0_1.tar.gz?use_mirror=voxel

=item * zip

http://downloads.sourceforge.net/mojomail/dada-3_0_1.zip?use_mirror=voxel

=back

=head2 Changes 3.0.1

This release focuses almost soley on bug fixes and ease of upgrading from previous versions, most especially, version 3.0.0 (the last stable release)

Although we do not at all recommend this, you can install this version of Dada Mail over version 3.0.0 by uploaded all the files, except the dada/DADA/Config.pm file, using the previous version of that file, instead. 

We've also made little to no changes in any of the files in the: 

I<dada/DADA/Template/templates>

directory, except for perhaps a spelling mistake fixed (these are noted in the list of bug fixes, below). This means that any modifications you may have done to any of these files, using version 3.0.0 should be 100% compatible with 3.0.1. 

Finally, we also made minimal changes to the outsie config file examples we've included (this also goes for defaults set in the Config.pm file), so you should have no worries that the outside config file you've been using for version 3.0.0 will work for 3.0.1 - it should. 

Because of the bug-fix focus of this release and the almost 100% transparency of the configuration and template parts of Dada Mail, we suggest this upgrade to any and all users who are currently using Dada Mail, 3.0.0. 

=head2 Bug Fixes 3.0.1

=over

=item *  2347543  	 3.0.0 - blog_index.cgi screen cache does work with > 1 list

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2347543&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2219316 3.0.0 - libwww-perl ver. 5.819 incompatible with Dada Mail?

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2219316&group_id=13002&atid=113002


=item * 2308530 3.0.0 - sub Confirm CAPTCHA broken w/close-loop disabled

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2308530&group_id=13002&atid=113002


=item *  2215463  	 3.0.0 - typo: s/us/use/ in edit_type_screen.tmpl

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2215463&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2219972  	 3.0.0 - Mailout.pm - associate method broken

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2219972&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2219912  	 3.0.0 - DBI attribute: InactiveDestroy used incorrectly

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2219912&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2219959  	 3.0.0 - no check to see if mailout exists after sleeping

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2219959&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2222381  	 3.0.0 - DADA::App::Guts::available_lists() needs caching

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2222381&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  2191258  	 3.0.0 - email addresses with newlines are seen as valid                

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2191258&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 3.0.0 - Stale Mailout can still clog up mail queue

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2203220&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 3.0.0 - qmail_error_5dot5dot1 contains two actions

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2185937&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 3.0.0 - multiple_subscribe.cgi docs wrong about "lists" para

https://sourceforge.net/tracker2/?func=detail&aid=2183150&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2167322 3.0.0 - DADA::App::POP3Tools _lock_pop3_check error

https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=2167322&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2167227 3.0.0 - POP-before-SMTP test never uses Mode or SSL prefs

https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=2167227&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2167224 	3.0.0 - SMTP Options POP-before-SMTP Auth Mode option broken

https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=2167224&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2120035  	  3.0.0 - "Warning! Mailout seems broken!"

https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=2120035&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2148744  	  3.0.0 - Adv. install Instructions unclear about passwords

https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=2148744&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2120386  	  3.0.0 - Scheduled Mailing Time problem with 12 am

https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=2120386&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2124123  	  3.0.0 - Log viewer doesn't escape ">" "<" in searches

https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=2124123&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 3.0.0 - Check_List_Owner_Return_Path_Header fails with undef

https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=2136642&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 3.0.0 - Send a Webpage msg w/Clickthrough Links Fails

https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=2145145&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2147102  	  3.0.0 - "Open List in New Window" has unwanted linebreak?

https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=2147102&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item * 2120407  	  3.0.0 - DADA Mail Admin login problem

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=2120407&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=back




=head2 3.0.0

=head2 Download 3.0.0

=over

=item * tar.gz

http://downloads.sourceforge.net/mojomail/dada-3_0_0.tar.gz?use_mirror=voxel

=item * zip

http://downloads.sourceforge.net/mojomail/dada-3_0_0.zip?use_mirror=voxel

=back

These changes are between 3.0.0 RC 1 and 3.0.0


=head2 Changes 3.0.0

=head3 Support Site URL Change

Mention of, L<http://mojo.skazat.com> has been changed to, L<http://dadamailproject.com>

=head2 Bug Fixes 3.0.0

=over

=item * 1999560  	  3.0 rc1 - discussion_pop_auth_mode never saved

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1999560&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=back

=head2 3.0.0 - RC 1


=head2 Download 3.0.0 RC 1

=over

=item * tar.gz

http://downloads.sourceforge.net/mojomail/dada-3_0_0-rc_1.tar.gz?use_mirror=voxel

=item * zip

http://downloads.sourceforge.net/mojomail/dada-3_0_0-rc_1.zip?use_mirror=voxel

=back

These changes are between 3.0 beta 3 and 3.0.0 RC 1


=head2 Changes 3.0.0 RC 1

=head2 Bug Fixes 3.0 RC 1

=over

=item * 3.0 b3 - blog_index.cgi - attempts to show x archives...

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1971594&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  1971596  	  3.0 b3 - "You need to login" form doesn't redirect correctly

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1971596&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  1971606  	  3.0 b3 - Sending Monitor does not do a list exists check!

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1971606&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  1971608  	  3.0 b3 - Authorized Senders function broken in discuss lists

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1971608&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  1973334  	  3.0 b3 - blog_index.cgi - raw subject/messages shown?

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1973334&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  1973868  	  3.0 b3 - Not White Listed Addresses not shown in add->verify

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1973868&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  1973894  	  3.0 b3 - "Double Opt-in" Terminology used in Dada Mail

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1973894&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  1975896  	  3.0 b3 - Test messages can still get stuck in the queue

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1975896&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  1977000  	  3.0 b3 - example_dada_config.tmpl variables gets squashed

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1977000&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  1982831  	  3.0 b3 - mini mailing monitor shows incorrect list mailing #

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1982831&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  1982853  	  3.0 b3 - Deleting a list does not remove mailouts.

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1982853&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  1982864  	  3.0 b3 - White List sublist not removed on list deletion

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1982864&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  1985893  	  3.0 b3 - Wrong login info on one list will break logins

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1985893&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  1988324  	  3.0 b3 - resend confirmation loses extra subscriber info

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1988324&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  1993418  	  3.0 b3 - [plain_list_confirm_subscribe] not backwards compat

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1993418&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=back

=head2 3.0 Beta 3

=head2 Download 3.0 Beta 3

=over

=item * tar.gz

http://downloads.sourceforge.net/mojomail/dada-3_0_beta_3.tar.gz?use_mirror=osdn

=item * zip

http://downloads.sourceforge.net/mojomail/dada-3_0_beta_3.zip?use_mirror=osdn

=back

These changes are between 3.0 beta 2 and 3.0 beta 3


=head2 Changes 3.0 Beta 3

=head3 Mailing Monitor

Major changes have been enacted in the mailing monitor. 

The index screen on the mailing monitor now has separate columns for: 

=over

=item * Subject

=item * Created

=item * Paused

=item * Queued

=item * Stale

=item * Broken

=back

The mailing monitor also now sorts the mailouts in the order they were created, instead of their line in the queue. The line in queue method was actually crtically confusing (even to me). 

The mailing monitor also handles, "Broken" mailouts better. There were a few notable problems with the previous revision, including: 

=over

=item * Broken Mailouts messed up the queue

If a mailout was broken, it would never leave the mail queue, so any mass mailings waiting to go out would always be stuck; since the default max number of mailouts is, 1 (this number is configurable) 

=item * Mailing monitor broken with a broken mailing

If you had a broken mailing, it wouldn't show up in the mailing monitor index - essentially breaking it, since information was missing. 

=back

Along with these problems, a lack of notice about a broken mailing plagued the entire interface - probably because of wishful thinking that a mailout would I<NEVER> become broken. Proper feedback should now be in place, in the mailing monitor index, individual mailing monitor screens, as well as the detailed and nerdy printout. 

=head3 Mailing Monitor, continued...

Much work has also been done with the mailing monitor, to deal with broken mass mailings. If a mass mailing is seen as broken, it's now also, "paused" to move it out of the way of the mail queue. 

Feedback is terribly wanted to make sure the mailing monitor and coupled auto-pickup functionality is working for you - so let us know!

=head3 Mailing Monitor  responsiveness

The responsiveness of the, pause and resume buttons, as well as seeing if a mailing is queued should be a bit better now, as the status of the mailouts is checked before a batch is begun and after a batch begins. (before it was only afterwards). Queueing, I want to say, was never checked after a mailout began, which really is a bug. 

The individual mailing monitor screens also have a way to turn off the auto-refresh, which can be annoying, if you're attemting to read the, "Verbose Sending Information" in the screen itself; 

=head3 CPAN module Juggling

The included group of CPAN modules known as, B<MIME-Tools> was downgraded in Dada Mail from version 5.426 to version 5.420. One of the reasons was that versions above 5.420 require Perl, version 5.8 to run and we're still spec'ing Dada Mail to be able to run on Perl, version 5.6. Another reason is the newest version has major conflicts with other bundled CPAN modules, as well as site-wide Perl modules, installed from CPAN. It's quite a headache. 

=head3 blog_index.cgi Plugin

The blog_index.cgi plugin has been refreshed and allows you to now embed the HTML it creates via a javascript library, or as straight HTML. A new menu item in the Admin Contol Panel has been added. 

=head3 "Send a List Message" API

The API used in the, "Send a List Message" screen has been introduced in an... introductory manner, in the, I<Integrating Dada Mail into other Programs> docs: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/COOKBOOK-integration.pod.html#accessing_the__send_a_list_message_api>

If there's interest, I'll expand on this topic. 

=head3 $MONITOR_MAILOUTS_AFTER_EVERY_EXECUTION

A new Config.pm variable, C<$MONITOR_MAILOUTS_AFTER_EVERY_EXECUTION> was introducted. If set to, C<1>, Dada Mail will call the same code as it does in the Mailing Monitor and auto_pick.pl scripts in the mail.cgi script itself, after its finished with whatever else it has to do. 

B<See also:>

L<http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/Config.pm.html#_monitor_mailouts_after_every_execution>

=head3 List Control Panel Menu Enhancements

The List Control Panel's Admin Menu menu items have been tweaked. 

The top level title, I<Customize Feature Set> has been moved below a new top level title, I<Manage List Control Panel>. Underneith this same title is a new menu item labeled, I< Options>

=head3 Customize Feature Set Changes

The option, I<Grey Out Disabled Screens> still greys out the titles on the lost control panel's admin menu, but the text is now clickable. Clicking these links will give you an error page, telling the user they don't have access to this screen. 

The order of some of the menu items have also changed. Most notably, the, B<Plugins> and, B<Extensions> items have been moved to be before the, "About Dada Mail", "Logout" and, "Log Into Another List" items. 

=head2 New Admin Screen: Manage List Control Panel - Options

Currently, it's only functionality is to enable and disable FCKeditor support. This new setting currently does not affect Beatitude (but should).

=head2 Bug Fixes 3.0 Beta 3

=over

=item *  1959728  	  3.0 b2 - SMTP sending broken because of missing CPAN module

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1959728&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=back


=head3 Open Bugs 3.0 Beta 3

=over  

=item * 1963127  	  3.0 b2 - Send a Webpage, Assets w/URLS w/Query Strings break

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1963127&group_id=13002&atid=113002

This bug has been added to the, "KNOWN ISSUES" list, as no workaround can be found at present. 

=back

=head2 3.0 Beta 2

=head2 Download 3.0 Beta 2

=over

=item * tar.gz

http://downloads.sourceforge.net/mojomail/dada-3_0_beta_2.tar.gz?use_mirror=osdn

=item * zip

http://downloads.sourceforge.net/mojomail/dada-3_0_beta_2.zip?use_mirror=osdn

=back

These changes are between 3.0 beta 1 and 3.0 beta 2

=head2 Changes 3.0 Beta 2

=head3 Beatitude

The Beatitude-Specific Plugin Config, C<FCKeditor_Support> param has been removed. 

=head3 Dada Mail Admin Menu

The left hand side admin menu now shows how many mailouts per list, and per Dada Mail install, iin the, "Monitor Your Mailings" menu item

=head3 Dada Mail Queueing Notifications

There are now messages on top of the, Send a List Message, Send a Webpage and Send a List Invitation screens to let you know if the limit of 
individual mass mailings has been reached and if the message you're about to send will be queued. This is to help any confusion about why messages don't go out 
right away. 

=head2 Bug Fixes

The following bug fixes seem to be fixed, but are still labeled as, I<Pending> in the BugTraq

=head3 General 

=over

=item *  1957601  	  3.0 b1 - included CPAN modules out of date

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1957601&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  1957147  	  3.0 b1 - note that unsub is from bouncing never applied

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1957147&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  1948393  	  3.0 b1 - Default $CAPTCHA_TYPE set to, "reCATPCHA"...

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1948393&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  1948391  	  3.0 b1 - Archive send to a friend CATPCHA directions show...

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1948391&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=back

=head3 Mail Sending

=over

=item *  1957152  	  3.0 b1 - queued msgs get in the way of sending test msgs

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1957152&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  1957026  	  3.0 b1 - sending multiple messages per SMTP con. broken

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1957026&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  1957017  	  3.0 b1 - enabling Clickthrough breaks mass mailings

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1957017&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=back

=head3 Dada Bridge

=over

=item * 3.0 b1 - POP SSL connection is broken

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1951108&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  1950165  	  3.0 b1 - Incorrect API for Net::POP3Tools for quit'ing con.

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1950165&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  1949432  	  3.0 b1 - Authorized Senders enabled breaks discussion lists

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1949432&group_id=13002&atid=113002


=back

=head3 Beatitude

=over

=item *  1947601  	  3.0 b1 - FCKEditor enabled falsely gives blank HTML ver

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1947601&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=back

=head3 Mystery Girl (Bounce Handler) 

=over

=item *  1957141  	  3.0 b1 - Bouncing email addy's never removed (SQL backend)

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1957141&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=back

=head3 Multiple Subscribe Extension

=over

=item *  1947602  	  3.0 b1 - $DADA::CONFIG::PROGRAM_URL - used only once?

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1947602&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=back


=head3 dada_digest.pl Extension

B<Note:> This extension is currently deprecated. 

=over

=item *  1951409  	  3.0 b1 - dada_digest.pl ext. sends msgs to non-digest list -

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1951409&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=item *  1948424  	  3.0 b1 - dada_digest.pl ext. not fully ported to 3.0 API

http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1948424&group_id=13002&atid=113002

=back

=cut
