=pod

=head1 Dada Mail Changelog for version 4.x.x

=head1 4.7.0

=head2 Summary 4.7.0

=head2 Features 4.7.0

This release of Dada Mail provides additional tools to help you manage your mailing list through the list control panel. 

With this version, you now have the ability to: 

=over

=item * Send a "Welcome" message to subscribers you've added from within the list control panel

=item * Send a copy of the last archived message to subscribers you've added from within the list control panel

=item * Send a, "Farewell" message to subscribers you've removed from within the list control panel. 

=item * View mass mailing tracker information from right within the mailing monitor I< (opens, link clickthroughs, bounces, forward-to-a-friend, archive views, etc)>

=item * New tracker features: track forward-to-a-friend usage and archive views by country of origin and over time

=item * Truly, "Closed" and, "Invitation-only" mailing list behaviors

=back

=head3 Tracker Reports in Mailing Monitor

Tracker Reports are available right in the mailing monitor of mass mailings to your subscribers and updated while your mass mailing goes out.

Enable this option in the Tracker plugin, the option is labeled, B<Show Message Reports in Mailing Monitor> 

=head3 Invitation-Only Mailing Lists

Mailing Lists can now be truly, I<Invitation-Only>. The list owner of a mailing list must send out an Invitation Message from the list control panel and individuals may not self-subscribe. 

=head3 List Control Panel Subscriptions Enhancements

=head4 Send a "Welcome" Message to Addresses Subscribed by the List Owner. 

Mass subscriptions in the list control panel I<(if this option is enabled)> can automatically be followed up with a, "Welcome" message sent to only the new subscribers. 

This welcome message can be customized in the list control panel in the, B<Appearance and Templates - Email Message Templates> screen under, B<"Welcome" Message to Addresses Subscribed in the List Control Panel>

=head4 Send the Newest Archived Message to Addresses Subscribed by the List Owner. 

As well as sending out a Welcome Message, you may now send out the newest archived message to just the subscribers that were newly added. 

=head3 List Control Panel Unubscriptions Enhancements

=head4 Send a "Farewell" Message to Addresses Unsubscribed by the List Owner. 

Mass unsubscriptions in the list control panel can automatically be followed up with a, "Farewell" message sent to only addresses that have just been removed. 

This Farewell Message can be customized in the list control panel in the, B<Appearance and Templates - Email Message Templates> screen under, B<"Farewell" Message to Addresses Unsubscribed in the List Control Panel>

=head3 Tracker Enhancements 

=head4 "Forward to a Friend" Logging 

The Tracker plugin now has the ability to log every time the, "Forward to a Friend" form is used. Enabled by default.

Individual message reports will show the total number of times "Forward to a Friend" was used, as well as usage over time and by geography.  

=head4 Archive Views Logging 

The Tracker plugin now has the ability to log every time an archived message is viewed. Enabled by default. 

Individual message reports will show the total number of times an archived message was viewed, as well as views over time and by geography. 

=head2 Changes 4.7.0

=head3 "Enable, "Subscribe Checked Subscribers" button in the, Manage Subscribers -> Invite/Add -> Verify screen" option MOVED

The option, B<Enable, "Subscribe Checked Subscribers" button in the, Manage Subscribers -> Invite/Add -> Verify screen > was not removed, 
but was moved to, B<Your Mailing List - Mailing List Options> under, B<List Control Panel Subscriptions>. The option has been relabled, B<Enable Adding Subscribers from within the List Control Panel>

=head3 Closed Lists Behavior Changed

"Closed" lists are now truly closed, meaning that now subscriptions may be made either by a individual, or in the list control panel. 

The behavior you may want instead, if you were running a closed list, is an, "Invitation-Only" list. 

=head3 "Send the Newest Archived Message to All New Subscribers." Option Moved 

The, B<Send the Newest Archived Message to All New Subscribers.> option has been moved from, B<Message Archives - Archive Options> to, B<Your Mailing List -  Mailing List Options> under, B<Subscriptions>

=head2 Bug Fixes 4.7.0

=head3 Dada Bridge: Messages not checked, when stale messages in the way

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/183

=head3 "Manage Appearance" used instead of, "Appearance and Templates "

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/184

=head3 Docs: Missing dot ( . ) in code example.

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/185

=head3 Docs: Missing dot ( . ) in code example.

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/185

=head3 "Monitor Your Mailing" documentation(?) page is blank on pro 4.3

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/186

=head1 4.6.1

=head2 Summary 4.6.1

This a purely bug fix release, with most of the bugs fixed for the Dada Bridge
plugin, to stop potential infinite loops from occuring. 

=head2 Changes 4.6.1

=head3 CPAN Module Updates

=over

=item * MIME::EncWords updated v1.012.3

=back

=head2 Features 4.6.1

=head2 Bug Fixes 4.6.1 

=head3 auto_pickup.pl: Can't locate object method "run" via package "tracker"

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/174

=head3 "Revert ALL Text to Defaults" at "Email Message Templates" not working

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/175

=head3 Discussion Lists with a List Name the same as the List Email can cause Infinite Loops!

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/176

=head3 Dada Bridge: Ability to subscribe List Email to Subscription List

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/177

=head3 Dada Bridge: Ability to set List Email address to same address used for List Owner or List Admin address

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/178

=head3 Dada Bridge: Ability to set List Email to a List Email used on a different list

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/179

=head3  Closes #180 List-Subscribe: header used even if the list is CLOSED

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/180

=head3 "Unsubscribe Tag Options" not reflected in, "List-Unsubscribe" header

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/181



=head1 4.6.0

=head2 Summary 4.6.0

v4.6.0 includes experimental subprojects, like Amazon SES support and unsubscribe tag/link 
flexibility, as well as updates and refinements to the default mailing list message templates, 
social bookmarking links, forward to a friend functionality, as well as a new plugin called, B<Mailing Monitor> 

=head2 Features 4.6.0 

=head3 Amazon SES Mail Sending Support

Amazon SES allows you to send email messages with Dada Mail using the Amazon 
SES Web Service. This service could potentially allow someone running a website with 
a small mailing quota send out mass mailings to a very large list, utilizing Amazon's 
services.

This feature is currently labeled, I<Experimental>. We need feedback. 
We want to make the feature better. Give us feedback!

=head4 See Also: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/d/features-amazon_ses_support.pod.html>

=head3 Forward to a Friend

It's now possible to place a, "Forward to a Friend" link into your mailing list messages. 

The Forward to a Friend form is available to both subscribers as well as visitors
to your mailing list archives. 

=head4 More Information: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/d/features_forward_to_a_friend.pod.html>

=head2 Unsubscribe Tag/Link Flexibility

You can now change the behavior of what Dada Mail does, 
after a user clicks the Unsubscriber Link. 

=over

=item * The unsubscription request can either be automatically processed, 

=item * or you may have the subscriber submit a unsubscription form. 

=back

The second option is hoped to thwart absent-minded clicks, as well as auto link prefetching.
 

This feature is currently labeled, I<Experimental>. We need feedback. 
We want to make the feature better. Give us feedback!

=head3 New Plugin: Mailing Monitor

The, B<Mailing Monitor> plugin replaces the, C<auto_pickup.pl> extension. 

Compared to the old extension, the Mailing Monitor plugin has a nicer list control panel interface and much more simplified instructions. 

The C<auto_pickup.pl> extension will still be shipped with Dada Mail, but will simply be a redirect to this new plugin. 

=head4 See Also: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/d/mailing_monitor.cgi.html>

=head3 Install Plugins/Extensions with the Dada Mail Installer

The installer that comes with Dada Mail now supports the installation of most of the 
plugins and extensions that come with Dada Mail.

The installer also gives you the option, when used to upgrade your current Dada Mail,  to either keep your current C<.dada_config> file, or to create a new C<.dada_config> file,  while also keeping your current C<.dada_files> directory structure and contents. 

=head4 See Also

L<http://dadamailproject.com/d/install_dada_mail.pod.html>

=head2 Changes 4.6.0 

=head3 Better-Written Mailing List Message Templates

Default Mailing List Messages are now much less verbose and more useful, with 
already-included "Forward to a Friend" link and better design. 

=head3 Social Bookmarking Links Updated

The Facebook link has been replaced by the Facebook, B<Like> button and 
the, B<Plus Google> button has been added.

=head3 GeoIP data updated

The freshest GeoIP data has been included with Dada Mail. 

I<Fresh as of 03-Aug-2011>, fetched from: 

L<http://geolite.maxmind.com/download/geoip/database/GeoLiteCountry/>

=head2 Bug Fixes 4.6.0 

=head3 POP3 Login Paramaters not getting passed correctly?

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/164

=head1 4.5.2

=head2 Summary 4.5.2

v4.5.2 fixes some small bugs found in v4.5.1 of Dada Mail, as well as adding 
additional capabilities to the Tracker Plugin 

=head2 Bug Fixes 4.5.2

=head3 "Download List (CSV)" (PlainText backend) all on one line

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/169

=head2 Features 4.5.2

=head3 Tracker: Domain Breakdown of bouncing email addresses

=head3 Tracker: Messages Opens Over Time

=head3 Tracker: Messages Clickthroughs Over Time

=head1 4.5.1

=head2 Summary 4.5.1

v4.5.1 fixes some small bugs found in v4.5.0 of Dada Mail, mostly dealing with the Tracker plugin

=head2 Bug Fixes 4.5.1

=head3 broken link to Tracker plugin in example_dada_config.tmpl template

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/165

=head3 Clickthrough.pm misc. debug code (warnings) 

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/166

=head3 Tracker: Clickthrough URL report isn't contained

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/167

=head3 Tracker: GeoIP Country -> # report table has no order

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/168

=head1 4.5.0

=head2 Features 4.5.0

=head3 New Plugin! Tracker

Tracker is the heir to the once venerable but now quite rickety I<clickthrough_tracking.cgi> 
plugin, rewritten to be better at everything I<clickthrough_tracking.cgi> was supposed to be 
good at. 

Tracker tracks the following Mass Mailing events: 

=over

=item * # subscribers when a mass mailing was sent out

=item * # of recorded clickthroughs 

=item * # of recorded opens/views

=item * # bounces, both soft and hard

=back

Tracker also allows you to automatically track all the links in your mass mailing messages
(instead of having to do everything manually) and provides very fancy charts/graphs of the 
information it compiles, for easy digestion. 

=head4 More Information

See the Documenation for the B<Tracker> plugin at: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/d/tracker.cgi.html>

=head2 Changes 4.5.0 

=head3 clickthrough_tracker.cgi plugin removed

Replaced with the Tracker plugin, which is tons better.

=head3 Subscriber and # Mailing Lists Quotas changes

Dada Mail ships with a limit of 3 (instead of 5) mailing lists and a limit of 
10,000 subscribers (instead of 25,000) quotas by default. We encourage you to 
use Pro Dada, if you need more than that: L<http://dadamailproject.com/purchase/pro.html>

=head2 Bug Fixes 4.5.0 

=head3 Bounce Handler: link to view individual email address's bounce information goes to screen w/server error

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/161

=head3 Link to Add Authorized Senders not available if they're aren't any, yet

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/160

=head3 Advanced Sending Preferences: Unable to change three settings

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/162

=head3 Dadaized FormMail.pl - syntax errors?

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/163



=head1 4.4.3

=head2 Changes 4.4.3

=head3 Clickthrough Tracking Redirect Tags Now Support mailto: URLS

v4.4.2 introduced stricter checking of the redirect tags, to make sure they look 
like URL's. This essentially broken any redirects that didn't start with, http://, https:// or ftp:// (there's a few others, as well) 

One redirect that was being used by some users was a B<mailto:>, like this: 

 mailto:user@example.com

or, 

 <a href="[redirect=mailto:user@example.com]">Email Us!</a>  

Support for such redirects has be re-introduced. 

=over

=item * Wishlist: mailto:user@example.com supported in the redirect tags

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/145

=back

=head3 ajax_include_subscribe.cgi - set the mailing list you want the form to use, by query string paramater

In the, C<ajax_include_subscribe.cgi> script, you had the choice of either creating a form that allows you to 
show ALL lists available, or set a configuration variable within the script, to only show one list by default. 

You may now set whichever list you would like the subscription form to use, via the, C<list> query string paramater: 

 <script type="text/javascript" src="http://example.com/cgi-bin/dada/extensions/ajax_include_subscribe.cgi?list=mylist"></script> 
 
to show a subscription form for just that list. This works better than setting it within the extension, as you have the 
choice of making a specific subscription form, for any of your lists. 

=head3 Documentation Move Dada Mail Between Servers/Accounts

New documentation is now shipped to give guidance on how to move Dada Mail between hosting servers/accounts

The docs are readable here: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/d/move_dada_mail.pod.html>

=over

=item * New documentation on how to move a Dada Mail install from one server/account to another 

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues#issue/149

=back

=head3 View List Screen Doesn't Show So Much Stuff if There's Nothing to Show

If you don't have any Subscribers/Addresses to show, the View List Screen no longer shows
all that Stuff it usually shows. 

=head3 Black List Additions are Made a Little More Clearly Known

In the List Control Panel, if you remove addresses from your mailing list, the number of addresses that are then black listed is now displayed, instead of just mysteriously being added. 

=head3 Bounce Handler: Erase the Scorecard in the list control panel 

You can now erase the Bounce Scorecard on a list-per-list basis in the list control panel. 

=head2 Bug Fixes

=head3 Attachments Unviewable in Archives if the attachment has a space in the filename 

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/159

=head3 Finished Mass Mailing Notification has unparsed template tag

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/157

=head3 Clicking, "Send Invitations" with no addresses to invite leads to a broken screen

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/155

=head3 A "closed" list still allows invitations to be sent - which cannot be answered. 

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/156

=head3 Dada Mail Logo not showing up in installer 

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/154

=head3 multi_admin_subscribers.cgi - doesn't show search results

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/142

=head3 multi_admin_subscribers.cgi - won't work with mixed cased email addresses

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/143

=head3 Raw Clickthrough log not listed in log_viewer.cgi

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/146

=head3 Embedded (regular - non-AJAX) Javascript subscription form does not work

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/148

=head3 Send a List Invitation - PlainText Version (only) does not work

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/150

=head3 "SQLite" backend and Sessions: wrong table, "sessions" being used?

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/141

=head3 Use of, DADA::MailingList::Subscribers::remove_from_list deprecated method

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/140

=head3 prototype JavaScript library is out of date - using: 1.6, current: 1.7

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/138

=head3 Send a List Invitation - PlainText Version sent in multipart email - both plaintext

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/151

=head3 Send a List Invitation - Email Messages created with the wrong encoding

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/152

=head3 Config.pm: Use of uninitialized value in string ne at ..//DADA/Config.pm line 5184.

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/153

=head1 4.4.2

=head2 Changes 4.4.

=head2 Bug Fixes 4.4.2

=head3 Saving archive options -> Can't locate object method "save_w_meta"

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/120

=head3 "Download List (CSV)" doesn't work

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/123

=head3 "what_is_dada_mail" screen returns back Server Error

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/125

=head3 DADA::MailingList::Subscribers::add_subscriber() "-dupe_check" option not documented, tested

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/127

=head3 Duplicate email addresses can be subscribed in list control panel in last step -

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/124

=head3 "Delete List" screen will show Server Error, once you delete a list

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/134

=head3  Screen after you fill out the form to create a new list is completely blank

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/133

=head3 Beatitude/List Backup/Restore: Attempting to restore a blank scheduled mailing will result in an error

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/130

=head3 Beatitude: Schedules backed up at each schedule run

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/132

=head3 Restore Lists: Popup menus can have the wrong information

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/131

=head3 redirect tags not looked for validity in the URL

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/136

=head3 "I know these tables already exist." label doesn't toggle checkbox in installer

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/137

=head3 grammar error in Mailing List Options screen s/subscription/unsubscription/

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/139

=head1 4.4.1

=head2 Changes 4.4.1

=head3 Dada Bridge SpamAssassin 3 Support Added

Previously, only v2 of SpamAssassin was supported. 

=head2 Bug Fixes 4.4.1

=head3 Subscriber Search screen does not ever show the, "Subscription Requests" link/button

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/122

=head3 Can't locate object method "cache_dir" via package "self" - error

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/121

=head3 signing into a single list (via f=sign_in) produces an error. 

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/115

=head3 Editing an Archive screen sometimes returns back a, "Method Not Allowed" error

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/119

=head1 4.4.0

=head2 Changes 4.4.0

=head3 Closed-Loop Opt-In Subscription Not Enforced by Default, Anymore

In v4.3.0, Closed-Loop Opt-In Subscription model was applied in Dada Mail to mailing list by default
and by default you were not able to change these list settings to tailor it to your needs, without 
first changing the config variable, C<$ENFORCE_CLOSED_LOOP_OPT_IN> to, C<0>. 

It was also noted that in future versions of Dada Mail, features that did not conform 
to Closed-Loop Opt In would be removed from Dada Mail.

The, C<$ENFORCE_CLOSED_LOOP_OPT_IN> variable is now shipped with a value of, C<0> by 
default, making Dada Mail's behavior the same as pre-4.3.0 versions of Dada Mail.

We're also opening up the dialogue to all users of Dada Mail on how they see is the best way 
to balance power and versatility of Dada Mail, with accountability and adherence of the rules 
of a legitimate mailing list. We will put on hold the plan to deprecate these features, until 
we got more feedback from the users of Dada Mail. Please join the discussion: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/support/boards/viewtopic.php?f=25&t=2457>


=head3 Code Cleanup

Code cleanup has trimmed 500+ lines from the mail.cgi file. Many of the changes can be seen from 
moving from the C<DADA::MailingList::Settings::save> method to the, C<DADA::MailingList::Settings::save_w_params> method 
and from moving from the C<DADA::Templates::Widgets::screen> sub to the C<DADA::Templates::Widgets::wrap_screen> sub. 

=head2 Mass Mailing: Better Error Reporting

One problem when sending mass mailings - especially one using Dada Mail's templating system, is
that you may make an error when using the template tags. This was a difficult error to even know about, 
since no reporting was made, if an error was found - Dada Mail would simply error out and your message 
would seem to be, "stuck" in the mass mailing queue, forever. 

Now, many syntax errors should now be caught when sending a mass mailing, a webpage, or a list invitation. 

=head3 Dada Bridge: Reply and Reply-All Behavior 

Dada Bridge has simplified some of its options to make it more inline with other
discussion mailing list apps, when it comes to discussion lists. You now have two choices: 


* Have replies always be addressed to the mailing list (with an option to reply-all), or, 

* Have replies addressed to the discussion list


=head3 View List: "Open List in New Window" button renamed to, "Download List"

The list will also be given back as a CSV file, so most likely, you'll get a little dialog box asking if you
want to either open it in some application, or just download it. 

=head3 View List: Email Your List Button is Gone

You may still download your mailing list in csv format. 

=head3 Log View: Download the Raw Log

You can now download the entire log file, through the log viewer. 

=head3 Installer: Old Screen Cache Files Removed

If you use the installer to upgrade Dada Mail (as it is noted you may do), old
screen cache files will be removed, so that old information/templates won't be shown, with 
the newer version of Dada Mail. 

=head3 Template System: initial "tmpl_set support",  template wrapping

There's initial support for what's called the, B<tmpl_set> template tag, that basically 
allows you to set a variable within your template, to be used somewhere else within your 
template. 

This is interesting when coupled with initial support with wrapping one template, with another. 

In one way, Dada Mail already supports this - many template screens you see use either the default 
list template, or the default admin template and add content to another template inside it. 

Internally, this was done in a very kludgey way and has now been cleaned up. There could be a potential for a 
33% speedup for screen creation (which is nice)  

What has also been cleaned up is a problem with the title of many HTML screens in Dada Mail 
being saved within the program files itself. You can now set the title of the HTML screen 
from within the template that gets wrapped. You'll see a line like this near the top of 
many of the templates: 

 <!-- tmpl_set name="title" value="I am a title!" -->

Since moving to this way of setting the title for HTML screens, many, many of the 
templates have been changed. If you've made custom changes to the templates, you will want 
to do a diff on your version, with the version that ships with Dada Mail. 

=head2 AJAX: internal changes

Many instances of using a package called, C<CGI::Ajax> (http://search.cpan.org/dist/CGI-Ajax/) 
has been replaced to use B<prototype> (http://www.prototypejs.org/)

The only place that CGI::Ajax is still being used is in the, ajax_include_subscribe.cgi 
extension - and we'll most likely remove it from there, soon as well. 

=head2 Mailing Monitor: AJAX

The Mailing Monitor in the list control panel is now refreshed via AJAX, so that 
only a portion of the screen you see needs to be updated, instead of a refresh of the entire 
screen. This seems to make things appear much more snappy. 

=head2 Subscription/Unsubscription Custom URL Redirect API Change

If there's an error with a subscription/unsubscription request, Dada Mail would 
add a list of the errors it came across by passing them in query string with a paramater named, C<errors>. 
This name has been changed to, C<errors[]> to help out php folk. This is tied to this bug: 

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues#issue/109>

=head2 Web Services Examples

Examples for initiating a subscription request have been updated and added to. Currently there are
server/client examples in SOAP and REST. There's also a command line example. Profile Fields are now
support for all clients and servers. 

The example scripts can be found in the distro, at: 

I<dada/extras/scripts/subscribe>

Documentation can be found at: 

I<dada/extras/documentation/pod_source/COOKBOOK-subscriptions.pod>
I<dada/extras/documentation/html_version/COOKBOOK-subscriptions.pod.html>

=head2 Test Mass Mailings, Mail Merging

If the email address you're using has a profile, its fields ("First Name", "Last Name", etc) 
will be used in test mass mailings, instead of not using any fields. This is also true if the list
owner email has their own profile. 

=head2 Bug Fixes 4.4.0

=head3 blank "Verify" screen when adding/removing addresses in the list control panel 

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/113

There seems to be a few small problems with both the add/remove verification screens,
if the information given is not formed correctly.

Among things that can cause problems:
* Invalid comma separated values format 
* blank lines 
* blank lines, except for spaces 
* incorrect information - such as HTML.
This HTML will then be viewed in the verification screens, without the HTML be escaped.


This causes a lot of problems with submitting addresses, as there isn't any notification, 
by Dada Mail that anything is wrong, except part of the screen having no information, what so ever.

=head3 Email Address submitted with mixed cases can break the unsubscription mechanism 

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/112

=head3 Sending Test Messages does not pick up on any profile fields of the test recipients email address 

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/issue/111

=head3 Beatitude: Yearly repeating schedules repeat in less than a year 

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/issue/110

=head3 Multiple use of parameters in redirect to URL 

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/issue/109

=head3 Discussion List Reply/Reply-All behaviour is broken 

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/issue/96

=head1 4.3.2

This release is a bugfix-only release: 

=head2 Bugfixes 4.3.2

=head3 The HTML Message to Text Message thingy breaks HTML::Template tags. Ugh! 

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/86

=head3 "Send Subscription Successful Emails is Disabled" notice shown, even if it isn't

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/108

=head2 Changes 4.3.2

There's some new documentation about upgrading from a Simple Scripts to a Regular 
Installation of Dada Mail: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/d/upgrade_from_simple_scripts.pod.html> 

=head1 4.3.1

=head2 Changes 4.3.1

=head3 Template Changes 4.3.1

Bugs were found in a few of the templates Dada Mail uses - the following templates have small changes in them: 

=over

=item * dada/DADA/Template/templates/list_options_screen.tmpl

=item * dada/DADA/Template/templates/list_cp_options.tmpl

=item * dada/DADA/Template/templates/archive_screen.tmpl

=item * $MAILING_LIST_MESSAGE_HTML

=back

=head3 SOAP Examples for Subscribing Included 

Some SOAP proof of concept files have been included in, I<dada/extras/scripts/SOAP> 

They can be read at: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/d/README_SOAP.pod.html>

They include a server written in Perl and clients written in Perl and php. They are also documented in the Subscription Cookbook

They are, in fact, Proof of Concepts and are not complete applications. 

=head3 Plugin: mx_lookup.cgi cleaned up

The B<mx_lookup.cgi> plugin has been cleaned up and documentation added. It's currently 
listed as, B<DEPRECATED>, but will not go away, until the functionality it has is brought into 
the core of the program. It's still a good example of how to make a simple Dada Mail plugin. 

=head3 Code Cleanup

github user masktos (Mark Stosberg) was kind enough to refactor a ton 
code into Dada Mail, having to do with Modern Perl/Perl Best Practices coding. 
Thanks, Mark! Some of the things he worked on include, 

=over

=item * simplifying and optimizing URI encoding/decoding

=item * changing foreach() to for()

=item * Adding Params::Validate, FindBin to some Dada Mail API subroutine/methods

=back

=head2 Bug Fixes 4.3.1

=head3 Link in General FAQ to installing Dada Mail is broken

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/107

=head3 General FAQ does not mention installer

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/106

=head3 $ENFORCE_CLOSED_LOOP_OPT_IN cannot be overriden in the outside config file (.dada_config)

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/105

=head3 archive_screen.tmpl misplaced <!-- /tmpl_if --> tag for <!-- tmpl_if list_settings.enable_gravatars --> leads to formatting problems

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/104

=head3 Docs mention how to make a, "one-click" unsub link, when ALL unsub links are one-click

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/103

=head3 Docs still mention "Adding" email addresses via the list control panel

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/102

=head3 Archived messages for discussion lists may have member-specific unsubscribe links (reopened)

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/101

=head3 "Send a List Invitation" screen Help Button is broken

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/100

=head3 No tests for DADA::App::Guts::available_lists - why not? 

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/73

=head3 reCAPTCHA settings in, Your Mailing List -> Mailing List Options always greyed out? 

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/90

=head3 Requirements doc out of date

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/91

=head3 Missing unordered list tags in $MAILING_LIST_MESSAGE_HTML template

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/93

=head3 Dada Mail 4.3.0, FormatMessages.pm and Email Templates

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/92

=head3 "Look Up Hostnames When Validating Email Addresses (MX Lookup)" cannot be enabled

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/97

=head3 No .htaccess in .dada_files directory by default, when installing w/the installer

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/99

=head1 4.3.0

Installation instructions for 4.3.0 are the same as they were for 4.2.0. 

=head2 Changes 4.3.0

=head3 CPAN module Captcha::reCAPTCHA upgraded from v.92 to v.94

=head3 Twitter Support Removed

Twitter turned off support for the, "Basic" authorization API they were using, 
in conjunction with oAuth (the new standard). oAuth isn't very compatible with 
Dada Mail, so we had to pull support for it. 

=head3 Habeas Watermark Support Removed

The Habeas Watermark isn't really used, anymore, anyways. 

=head2 Features 4.3.0

=head3 Dada Bridge: Ignore/Send a Rejection message for Spam Messages

It's now possible to either ignore messages seen as spam, or send a rejection message. 

=head3 Unsubscription Confirmations: Email Notice

If someone attempts to unsubscribe an email address that isn't actually 
subscribed, a notification will be sent, via email to the address, instead of having 
a notice in the browser. This is to keep the privacy of the subscriber. 

This behavior can be enabled/disabled in the list control panel, in, 

I<Your Mailing List  - Mailing List Options> 

Under the option, 

B<If someone not currently subscribed to your mailing list attempts to unsubscribe, send a, "You are not Subscribed!" message via email, instead of showing this error in their web browser.>

It is B<disabled> by default.

=head3 Closed-Loop Opt-In Subscription now Enforced by default

By default, the following features in Dada Mail are B<enabled>: 

=over 

=item * Closed-Loop Opt-In Subscriptions

=back 

By default, the following features in Dada Mail are I<disabled>: 

=over

=item * Subscribing Address via the List Control Panel without confirmation

(Invitations are still very much supported)

=item * Subscribing/Inviting Black Listed Addresses

(Black Listed subscribers may still subscribe themselves)

=item * Skipping the confirmation step for subscriptions if a user is logged into their profile

=back

These are options are set as such to closely follow Closed-Loop Opt-In Subscribing (meaning, a subscriber has to confirm a subscription themselves), 
which we think is the best way to run a email mailing list. 

The options to change these defaults that used to be available have been B<REMOVED> from the List Control Panel.  
You may still reveal these options by setting the Config variable, C<$ENFORCE_CLOSED_LOOP_OPT_IN> to, C<0>. We do not suggest this and we consider the above options B<DEPRECATED>. 

=head3 Email Message Templates Scanned for Correct Tags, Fixed if Missing. 

To make sure the subscription/removal systems in Dada Mail work correctly, Dada Mail will 
scan the user-editable email message templates, before it sends them out, to make sure they have the right tags, 
to perform the right actions. Here's a list of what tags are looked for, in which templates: 

=over

=item * List Subscription Confirmation Link

=over

=item * Subscription Confirmation Email

=item * List Invitation Message (PlainText) 

=item * List Invitation Message (HTML) 

=back

=item * List Unsubscribe Link 

=over

=item * Mailing List Message (PlainText) 

=item * Mailing List Message (HTML) 

=back

=item * List Unsubscribe/Removal Confirmation Link 

=over

=item * Unsubscription Confirmation Email

=back

=back

=head2 Config variable changes

=head3 $ADMIN_MENU 

The menu labled, "Add" under, "Manage Subscribers" has been change. The line used to read, 

	{-Title      => 'Add',

and now, reads: 

	{-Title      => 'Invite<!-- tmpl_if list_settings.enable_mass_subscribe -->/Add<!-- /tmpl_if -->',

Although you may want to change this line if you're upgrade from v4.x.x to v4.3.0, you won't be required to

=head3 $MAILlING_LIST_MESSAGE

The variable, C<$MAILlING_LIST_MESSAGE> has been renamed to, C<$MAILING_LIST_MESSAGE>.
You will need to rename this varialbe in your C<.dada_config> file, if you are currently using it. 

Dada Mail will also alert the user of the missing tags in the List Control Panel, I<Appearance and Templates - Email Message Templates>
 
=head2 Bug Fixes 4.3.0

=head3 uncompress_dada.cgi script will return, "Server Error 500", if it can't find the .tar.gz file to uncompress

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/89

=head3 $MAILlING_LIST_MESSAGE and, $MAILlING_LIST_MESSAGE_HTML variables speled incorrectly? 

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues#issue/87

=head3 List Page is NOT have email address protection 

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/84

=head3 No, "Are you sure?!" popup alert when clicking the, "remove all subscribers" button

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/82

=head3 No, "Are you sure?!" popup alert when clicking the, "purge all archives?" button 

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/83

=head3 available_lists with, "-In_Order" param doesn't. 

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/71

=head3 $PROGRAM_ERROR_LOG example in Config.pm is missing first, "/" in path

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/72

=head3 Some Config.pm variables not override-able in outside config file (.dada_config) 

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/74

=head3 inconstent naming of url-parameter, error/errors

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/79

=head3 '=' added to the end of some plaintext mailings in quoted-printable encoding

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/78

=head3 Can't delete an attachment in an archived message? 

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/75

=head3 Changes to Profile Subscriber Fields does not clear cache

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/80

=head3 links with Dada Mail tags in them will break, when using, "Send a Webpage" 

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/81

=head3 multiple_subscribe.cgi does not use email notification for "already subscribed" 

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/77

=head3 Unsubscribe requests should have similar "notify via email, rather than web UI" functionality

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/76

=head3 How's Twitter Support?

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/issue/66/#comment_546769

=head3 Habeas Watermark Not Really used Anymore?

https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/issue/65/#comment_546770

=head1 4.2.1

=head2 Changes 4.2.1

This is basically a bug-fix only release. But of note: 

=over

=item * Peppered through some of the directories are .htaccess files, to stop unwanted
access to these directories. This is simply a safegaurd and shouldn't really
be seen as a security issue. 

=back

=head2 Bug Fixes 4.2.1

=head3 "Setup Info" screen incorrectly determines a installation as, "Basic" if the $PROGRAM_CONFIG_FILE_DIR is set to, "auto"

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/62

=head3 Reply-To in %EMAIL_HEADERS will never be used

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/64

=head2 KNOWN ISSUES 4.2.1

=head3 Twitter Support

Twitter Support is currently not working, as the type of authorization Dada
Mail was utilising (Basic) has been dropped by Twitter in favor of a more substantial
authentication scheme called oAuth. 

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues#issue/66

=head3 Habeas Watermark 

The Habeas Watermark isn't really used anymore, Habeas The Company was bought by a
different company, that has a vastly different scheme, other than attempting to 
legally go after unauthorized use of their copyright material. The new system 
requires different headers to be present, which Dada Mail does not currently 
support. We'll see about supporting them, in the future. 

=head1 4.2.0

=head2 Changes 4.2.0

=head3 Dada Mail Installer

Dada Mail now comes with an installer - manually setting up and configuring
Dada Mail is now longer needed. Heavens be praised. 

Dada Installer directions may be found at: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/manually_install_dada_mail.pod.html>

Upgrade instructions may be found at: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/upgrade_dada_mail.pod.html>

The installar script may also be run via the command line - instructions can be 
found on how to use it, by invoking the script with the, C<--help> flag, 

 shell>./installer.cgi --help

=head4 Installation Terminology Changes

The, "Advanced" Installation of Dada Mail is just known as a, "Manual" installation
of Dada Mail.

The Dada Mail Installer will install Dada Mail the same way as one would install 
Dada Mail manually. Directions may be found here: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/manually_install_dada_mail.pod.html>

The, "Basic" Installation method is not recommended or supported. If upgrading from a, "Basic" installation, 
it's recommended to move to a more contemporary installation setup: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/basic_two_contemporary_installation.pod.html>

=head2 Setup Info Screen 

The, "Setup Info" Screen, that you can access using this URL: 

L<http://example.com/cgi-bin/dada/mail.cgi?f=setup_info>

has been completely rewritten. In light of the Installer, it does not attempt to help 
configure Dada Mail for you, but will tell you what type of installation it recognizes, 
 will present to you the entire contents of your, C<dada/DADA/Config.pm> file as well as your C<.dada_config> 
file and will show you how all config variables are being interpreted. 

=head3 $ADMIN_MENU Changes 

The $ADMIN_MENU variable has been changed to add the, "Dada Mail Setup Info" menu item. It looks like this: 

	{-Title      => '<!-- tmpl_var PROGRAM_NAME --> Setup Info',
	 -Title_URL  => "$S_PROGRAM_URL?f=setup_info",
	 -Function   => 'setup_info',
	 -Activated  => 1,
	},

=head3 MySQL 4-specific schema REMOVED

The MySQL schema shipped for Dada Mail, specifically for v4 of MySQL has been removed. 
The reason for the schema was more because of UTF-8 incompatibilities, rather 
than problems with this version of MySQL v4. 


=head2 Bug Fixes

=head3 Profile Email Addresses aren't normalized for case sensitivity

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues#issue/60

=head3 PlainText Backend - subscribed addresses with a, ' (single quote) will disrupt subscriptions

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/issue/61


=head1 4.1.0

=head2 Changes 4.1.0

=head3 Screen Cache Working Again, Enabled by Default

The Screen Cache API allows Dada Mail to save fully-rendered Dada Mail screens 
that are commonly viewed. 

=head4 Enabled by Default

The Screen Cache is enabled by default, via setting the C<$SCREEN_CACHE> config variable, to C<1> 

=head4 Changes to the $ADMIN_MENU

A new entry under the, "Plugins" heading has been added to the $ADMIN_MENU variable in the I<Config.pm>, 
I<dada/DADA/Template/templates/example_dada_config.tmpl> and, I<dada/extras/examples/example_dada_config.txt>

=head4 More information: 

=over

=item * Feature Overview: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/features-screen_cache.pod.html>

=item * screen_cache.cgi Plugin: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/features-screen_cache.cgi.html>

=back

=head3 Optimizations in Mass Mailing Speeds

Small Tweaks have been made to the Mass Mailing code in Dada Mail through code profiling
 which should positively impact Mass Mailing Speeds, upwards of .10 to .25 seconds 
faster, per message. 

=head3 Social Bookmarking/Link Sharing Buttons for archive screens Enabled by Default

Older, unused social bookmarking sites have been removed (as well as Fark, because,well...)

The Facebook link sharing button has also been added. 

=head2 Bug Fixes 4.1.0

=head3 Missing closing, "</ul>" HTML tag in profile_update_email_confirm.tmpl

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/57

=head3 Profile email updates cannot happen on closed lists

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/56

=head3 Unpaired divs in list_page_screen.tmpl

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/55

=head3 Can't view archived attachments

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues#issue/54

=head3 Slashes in pin for subscribe/unsubsribe links invaidates pin

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/48

=head3 "Send Subscribers to List Owner" function not very friendly to use 

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/49

=head1 4.0.5

=head2 Changes 4.0.5

=head3 POP3 and SMTP Passwords Saved in List Settings 

I<This is not a security bug/issue/notice - rather, this is a bug that was introduced
with the full UTF-8 support.> 

The binary-in-nature encrypted passwords saved by Dada Mail in the List Settings 
table/files in Dada Mail may have become unusable/corrupted with version 4.0.3
and/or 4.0.4 of Dada Mail. 

If you are having trouble/an impossible time using any of the POP3 or SMTP connection
stuff in Dada Mail, including Dada Bridge, Mystery Girl (Bounce Handler) or POP-before-SMTP
and/or SMTP SASL authentication - or even the Twitter stuff, you may be bitten by this bug. 
4.0.5 should provide a fix for this problem, B<BUT> (big but), 4.0.5 could potentialy I<break any 
currently stored passwords>. 

The fix will be to simply re-save the correct password, I<after> you've upgraded to 
4.0.5. 

New users of Dada Mail will not be affected by this problem.  

This problem B<does not impact> your List Password, or the Dada Mail Root Password - 
both of which are saved in a one-way encryption, that is separate from the way 
POP3/SMTP passwords are saved in Dada Mail. 

=head2 Bug Fixes 4.0.5

=head3 Subscriptions are not logged in the usage log. 

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/37

=head3 Subscribers can be subscribed more than once to the black list

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/38

=head3 Dada Bridge sending broken if, "Strip attachments that have the following file ending or mime-type:" is enabled

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/41

=head3 "Soft_Max_Size_Of_Any_Message" Dada Bridge plugin var not in "example_dada_config.txt" or the .dada_config semi-auto install template

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/42

=head3 No List-Unsubscribe header in some email messages

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/43

=head3 Can't call method "prepare" on an undefined value at /DADA/Profile.pm line 59"

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/44

=head3 Dada Bridge doesn't give friendly message about info being saved when you save info

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/47

=head3 POP3/SMTP passwords corrupted? 

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/45

=head3 Archived messages for discussion lists may have member-specific unsubscribe links

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/46

=head3 Send a Webpage gives unhelpful error if you enter a wrong URL of a missing page

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/17

=head3 4.0.1 Open discussion lists broken

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/13

This bug wasn't actually closed with this release, but from a previous release. It has
though, been confirmed to be closed with this release. 

=head1 4.0.4

=head2 Changes 4.0.4

=head3 UTF-8 Issues

=head4 MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite schema changes

Some compatibility issues cropped up, regarding UTF-8/unicode character set/encoding 
in re: to the SQL schemas. The schemas for all supported SQL backends have been 
modified to better work, mostly by changing fields with type, C<text(320)>, to type, 
C<varchar(80)>. Other notes have been added to the UTF-8 FAQ. 

=head4 dada3_to_dada4_sql.pl changes

Along with looking into changing the default schema in Dada Mail, the v3 to v4
migration script will now make the necessary schema and character set changes. 

The character encoding changes and SQL schema changes could potentially be desctructive, 
so we do, in fact, highly encourage you to make a backup of the entire database, 
before running the migration tool. Most notably, the character encoding change 
does not work perfectly. If your data contains a lot of non-Latin1 characters, we'd 
highly suggest you do your own ASCII/Latin1 to UTF-8 migration, before upgrading 
your Dada Mail. 

If you are running a verion of Dada Mail 4.0.0 to 4.0.3, you'll still need to 
make those schema changes manually if you're having trouble (exactly what to do, 
including example SQL is located in the UTF-8 FAQ). 


=head2 Bug Fixes 4.0.4

=head3 Dada Bridge always reports that IO::Socket::SSL isn't available

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/#issue/36

=head3 "Use Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)" option sometimes not available, even though appropriate CPAN module installed

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/#issue/35

=head3 Dada Bridge will always say that SpamAssassin isn't available

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/34

=head3 Moderation broken on Dada Bridge

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/33

=head3 Fallback Variables aren't used. 

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/32

=head3 "Save, Then Test Your Sending Preferences..." button broken in Sending Preferences

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/31

=head2 CPAN Modules 4.0.4

=over

=item * CGI::Sessoion upgraded to: 4.42

CGI::Session handles all session management in Dada Mail. 

=item * List-Utils Scalar-Utils

The CPAN perl modules, Scalar::Util and List::Util are included with Dada Mail, but aren't actively used (and are probably outdated),
 so that any server-wide installed versions will be used, instead. This is because the XS versions of these modules are needed for POP/SMTP 
SSL connections and having these usable by default, breaks SSL connections. The directories, 

 dada/DADA/perllib/List

and, 

 dada/DADA/perllib/Scalar

have been renamed, 

 dada/DADA/perllib/List-remove_to_install

and, 

 dada/DADA/perllib/Scalar-remove_to_install

renaming them back to their original name will make them, "active"

=back


=head1 4.0.3

=head2 Changes 4.0.3

=head3 Unicode/UTF-8 Work 

We have worked very, very hard to get Dada Mail working with UTF-8/Unicode.

We think we did a pretty good job and you'll have a most amazing experience
 when comparing this version to any previous version of Dada Mail (ever), but 
there may be tiny things still to work out. 

We need to know about them, don't be shy! 

=head4 SQL table schema changes!

People who upgrade to 4.0.3 (and any version afterwards, until things change!) 
should note that the MySQL and PostgreSQL Table Schemas have changed! 

You may need to update your own tables, to support UTF-8 (if they aren't 
already in that encoding).

=head4 See Also:

If you're upgrading, please read over the updated UTF-8/Unicode FAQ: 

http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/features-UTF-8.pod.html

If you're doing a new install, there's nothing you need to know, Dada Mail should
work well out of the box in re: to UTF-8/Unicode stuff. 

=head3 Changes to Default List Settings

We've changed a few of the default list settings, hopefully so that everyone 
has a more pleasant experience, right off the bat: 

=head4 Activate Black List

We've enabled the setting to active the Black List, by default. 

We're also enabling the below settings: 

=over

=item * Move Unsubscribed Subscribers Automatically to the Black List

=item * Continue to Allow Subscriptions From Subscribers of Black Listed Addresses

=back

You still have the option to change new lists to the previous behavior and already created lists 
will have their previous behavior, if Black List Settings have already been edited.  

=head3 Print List-Specific Headers option Removed

The option, B<Print List-Specific Headers> has been removed from, I<Mail Sending -Advanced Sending Preferences> 
has been removed, I<but> the functionality has B<not>. All 
mailing list messages will have these headers. 

=head3 Send Unsubscription Confirmation Emails (Closed-Loop Opt-Out) - disabled by default

B<Send Unsubscription Confirmation Emails (Closed-Loop Opt-Out)> has been disabled by default (you can still enable it) 

This option, when enabled, requires that when someone wants to unsubscribe, 
they have to confirm this unsubscription by clicking on the unsubscription confirmation link
in a URL sent their subscribed address. 

When disabled (the new default), they simply have to fill out the subscribe/unsubscribe form. 

=head2 Subscription and Unsubscription links now include an Email Address

When available, both the Subscription and Unsubscription links will have the potential subscriber's
(or unsubscriber's) email address in the link itself, so that the user does not have to do the two-step
of first following the link and then typing in their email address. 

These links are created per-subscriber (or potential sub/unsub), when you use the: 

 <!-- tmpl_var list_subscribe_link -->

or, 

 <!-- tmpl_var list_unsubscribe_link --> 

tags. Previously, these tags only provided a link to the subscription/unsubscription form, 
without the email address embedded within the link itself. There is no way to revert this behaviour, 
but you can still roll your own links, like this: 

Subscription Link: 

 <!-- tmpl_var PROGRAM_URL -->/s/<!-- tmpl_var list_settings.list --> 

Unsubscription Link: 

 <!-- tmpl_var PROGRAM_URL -->/u/<!-- tmpl_var list_settings.list -->

=head2 Unsubscription Links Now Mandatory for Mass Mailing Messages

Dada Mail will now do a quick check to make sure that there is a Dada Mail 
Unsubscription link in your mass mailing messages, before sending them out. 

If one is not found, one will be automatically appended to the end of your message. 

It will not be very fancy. 

We suggest that you make sure that you have a real, valid, Dada Mail unsubscription link
in your Mailing List Messages. 

=head2 Bug Fixes 4.0.3

=head3 Send newest archived message may have outdated header information

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/issue/30

=head3 pop3 username/password not saved when "Save, Then Test..." button pressed in Sending Preferences

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/issue/29

=head3 Beatitude: Months are listed out of order  

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/issue/28

=head3 profile field names can contain more than just ascii letters, numbers and underscores

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/issue/27

=head3 list short names can contain more than just ascii letters, numbers and underscores

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/issue/26

=head3 Beatitude:  Scheduled List Not in Any Useable Order?

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/issue/16

=head3 Dada Bridge: Spam Assassin Level Picker isn't available

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/issue/21

=head3 Sending Preferences don't correctly state if you can use Use Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) for POP-before-SMTP

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/issue/24

=head3 Double Subscriptions when using List Invitation

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/issue/23

=head3 Archived messages not templated out in publicly displayed archives

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/issue/20

=head3  Link to edit subscriber information broken when using the search  

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/issue/19

=head3 Unsubsciption Notice to List Owner doesn't have subscriber (profile) fields

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/issue/18

=head3 Disabled Menu items return server error when using the, "Classic" session type

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/issue/15

=head1 4.0.2

=head2 Changes 4.0.2

=head3 Dada Bridge: "Allow Open Discussion List" option always viewable

For whatever reason, the, "Allow Open Discussion List" option wasn't viewable, until
you first enabled discussion lists. It will now *always* be viewable, as long as the 
Plugin Config Param, C<Allow_Open_Discussion_List> is set to, C<1>

=head3 Dada Bridge: New Plugin Config Param: Check_Multiple_From_Addresses

A new Plugin Config Paramater called, C<Check_Multiple_From_Addresses> has been added
and has a default value of, C<1>. When enabled, messages that have more than one 
sender aren't supported by Dada Bridge and these messages will be ignored. 

Set this paramater to, C<0> to revert to the previous behavior. 

=head3 Mail Sending - "broken pipe" catch removed

Dada Mail had a very simple test to make sure mail using the sendmail command was successful, 
by looking at any error messages created from sending mail this way. If a, "broken pipe" 
message was found while sending a mass mailing, a mass mailing would be stopped, 
and would be picked up and sending would be attempted starting at the same address
that gave the error. The complete logged error may look like this: 

	[Mon Jan  4 16:40:08 2010] mail.cgi: Pro Dada 4.0.1 Warning: 
	[Mon Jan  4 16:40:08 2010] mail.cgi:                          didn't close pipe to '|/usr/sbin/sendmail -t -fbounces@example.com' while 
	[Mon Jan  4 16:40:08 2010] mail.cgi:                          attempting to send a message to: '"My Mailing List" <me@example.com> because:' Broken pipe at ..//DADA/MailingList/Schedules.pm line 808
	[Mon Jan  4 16:40:08 2010] mail.cgi: Broken Pipe error! returning -1 - Mass Mailing should be exit()ed! at ..//DADA/MailingList/Schedules.pm line 808
	[Mon Jan  4 16:40:08 2010] mail.cgi: [listshortname]  Mailout:<20100104164007.54315974@nicky510.com> Bailing out of Mailing for now - last message was unable to be sent! exit()ing! at ..//DADA/MailingList/Schedules.pm line 808

This behavior is problematic, since the, "broken pipe" error can happen, even 
if a message (or part of a message) is actually sent. Sometimes this happens if you 
have a message that contains a dot by itself on one line, like this: 

 .

If this is problematic to you (messages being cut off because of a lone dot on one line) 
and you're using the sendmail command to send messages, consider changing the C<$MAIL_SETTINGS> 
and, C<$MASS_MAIL_SETTINGS> Config variables to include the, C<-i> flag, like this: 

 $MAIL_SETTINGS      = "|$MAILPROG -t -i";
 $MASS_MAIL_SETTINGS = "|$MAILPROG -t -i";

=head2 Bug Fixes 4.0.2

=head3 confirmation pins with '/' as the first character break the confirmation process

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed/#issue/6

=head3 Dada Bridge: "Deliver a Copy" isn't working

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/10

=head3 pop3_username paramater not passed to sending_preferences.tmpl

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/12

=head3 Dada Bridge: From: header validation can be spoofed

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/11

=head3 Use One SMTP Connection per Batch (Experimental) unsaveable? 

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/14

=head3 



=head1 4.0.1

=head2 Changes 4.0.1

=head3 New Documentation

The following topics were added to the documentation: 

=over

=item * Converting from Default to SQL Backend

http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/FAQ-default_2_SQL_backend.pod.html

=item * Converting from a Basic to Contemporary Installation

http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/basic_two_contemporary_installation.pod.html

=back

=head3 New MySQL 4 Specific Schema

A MySQL Schema specifically for MySQL 4 is now shipped with Dada Mail at: 

I<dada/extras/SQL/mysql4_schema.sql>

=head3 DB Backup to SQL List Settings import script added

Although not heavily documented (yet), a DB Backup to SQL script has been added to the distribution at: 

I<dada/extras/scripts/dada_settings_backup_to_sql.pl> 

=head3 Misc. Changes

=over

=item * New List Screen

The, New List Screen has been giving minor formatting tweaks. 

=item * Caching for DADA::ProfileFieldsManager

Some work has been done to speed up DADA::ProfileFieldsManager by caching. 

=back

=head2 Bug Fixes 4.0.1

=head3 Use Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) cannot be checked in the Sending 

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/1

=head3 "List Password Reset" email message cannot be over-rided

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/2

=head3 MySQL schema isn't compatible with MySQL 4

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/4

=head3 Bounce Message reports that put email addresses in brackets <> can't be parsed? 

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/5

=head3 Wrong version numbers in 3.x to 4.x migration assistant 

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/7

=head3 parse_for_windows_live suboutine is broken

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/8

=head3 SQL Backend Clickthrough Tracker still requires a DBM package

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/closed#issue/9

=head1 4.0.0

=head2 Changes 4.0.0

=head2 4.0.0 Features

=over

=item * Multiple List Sending

Support has be re-introduced to allow Multiple List Sending. See the separate docs on this feature: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/feature-multiple_list_sending.pod.html>

=item *  Subscriber Profiles

Please see the docs specifically about Dada Mail Subscriber Profiles:

L<http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/feature-profiles.pod.html>

=item *  Subscriber Profile Field Labels

You can now have a, "Label" to your Subscriber Profile Field. A label is what's 
visibly shown and is not now created from the field's name.

=item * Subscription Approval System (Experimental) 

You can now have an, "open to all to subscribe" mailing list, that still requires approval from the list owner. 

Please see the docs specifically about this new feature: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/features-subscription_approval.pod.html>

=item * Slightly better UTF-8 support. 

This version of Dada Mail is currently shipped with all charsets and encodings to, "UTF-8", but Dada Mail itself is far from support this character set completely. 

This is because it is hard.

Please see the docs specifically about this new feature: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/features-UTF-8.pod.html>

=item * Twitter Support

Yup. Dada Mail can Tweet. More information: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/features-twitter_support.pod.html>

=item * CKeditor Support (Experimental) 

We're experimenting with bringing CKeditor support to Dada Mail. Please see the embedded Config.pm docs about this: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/Config.pm.html#ckeditor_integration____ckeditor_url__experimental__>

=item * Mass Mailings keep their own log

This means, that anything about the mass mailing is logged for that specific mass mailing - 
this should hopefully make debugging a little bit easier. 

=item * View the Mass Mailing Log from the Mailing Monitor

There's a new link entitled, "Open Mass Mailing Log in a New Window -> "

This functionality is currently extremely rough, but is a pretty easy way to see what, in fact, is going on. 

=item * Slightly Smarter Error Handling for failing sendmail mailings

We've started catching sendmail errors and, if we find an error, we'll exit out of the 
sending process, for the message to be automatically picked up and the last email 
that had a problem, to be tried again. It's currently not perfect, but it's a very small 
step forward.

=item * Clone Settings

You can now clone the settings from one list, to another list, in the, "Create a New List" screen. 

=item * Remove All Subscribers

You can now Remove all subscribers at once in the, I<Manage List - View Subscribers> screen. 

=item * prototype.js/Scriptalicious Support

For the most part, AJAX stuff in Dada Mail has been replaced by the prototype.js 
and Scriptalicious Javascript Libraries. 

=item * Black List Matching

If it wasn't clear or official before, it should be now:

The black list matching does not work with matching strings, but will only work to 
match the user or domain of an email address or the entire email address. These are valid black list entries: 

=over

=item * matchthis@

=item * @matchthis

=item * matchthis 

=item * matchthis@example.com

=back


=item * Plugins Beatitude - Fetch message from URL has same options as, "Send a Webpage" 

Mostly meaning, you can embed images within the email message itself. 

=item * Plugins Mystery Girl

You can now specify the Port Number of the POP3 mail server

=item * Plugins - Dada Bridge

Simple moderation support is included, to Authorized to moderate messages. 

=item * Plugins - Clickthrough Tracker

The Clickthrough Tracker now has a new SQL backend option for the URL redirect list. 

The log is still in PlainText. 

=item * Extensions - Update Subscriptions - REMOVED

The update_subscriptions.cgi extension has been removed, as its features have been superceded by the Dada Profiles
feature. And then some. 

=back

=head1 CPAN Perl Libraries 

The CPAN Perl Libraries needed for Dada Mail are now being saved within the 
Git Repository of Dada Mail. We don't know if this is the greatest idea, since we don't 
really plan on making changes to this modules. But, we're doing it. If any problems 
occur, please report!


=head1 API

There are many new modules in Dada Mail's backend, including: 

=over

=item * DADA::Profile

=item * DADA::Profile::Fields

=item * DADA::Profile::Session

=item * DADA::ProfileFieldsManager

=item * DADA::MailingList::Subscriber

=item * DADA::MailingList::Subscriber::Validate

=back

=cut
