=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 10.2.0

=head2 Focus

We've added support for showing a B<CAPTCHA on the initial signup form!> 

See the post about this feature for more details: 

L<http://blog.dadamailproject.com/2016/12/06/add-google-recaptcha-on-dada-mail-subscription-forms/>

as well as the docs on advanced installation configuration, 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/d/install_dada_mail-advanced_configuration.pod.html#Configure-CAPTCHA>

We've also removed support for reCAPTCHA v1, and the Default CAPTCHA type. You're
so much better served with reCAPTCHA v2, that these other choices just aren't worth your time. 

reCAPTCHA v2 requires the following CPAN module: C<Google::reCAPTCHA>, which you can install on its own, 
or through our, C<Bundle::DadaMail> module, which will install all the other optional CPAN modules Dada Mail
takes advantage of. Here's how you install CPAN modules, 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation-10_1_0/FAQ-installing_CPAN_Perl_modules.pod.html>

=head1 10.1.0

=head2 Focus 

B<Themes!> Dada Mail now comes with 10+ new themes, to complement the Default theme that first 
shipped with v10.0.0. Themes can be selected per mailing list in, B<Appearance: Email Themes>. 
A preview of the selected theme will be shown below the form on this screen. 

=head1 10.0.3

=head2 Focus 

This is mostly a bug-fix release for issues found in v10.0.2 of Dada Mail. 

=head2 Changes 

=head3 Set default layout for mass mailings

This is a small feature, but could be useful for people who normally send messages using Bridge, but want to 
use a layout that's not the default (Full) layout. 
Now, you may set which template is used by default, on allyour mass mailings. 
Look in the B<Mass Mailing: Options> screen for the option to set this up under, B< Default Mass Mailing Layout>

=head3 Work on Scheduled Tasks

This release has more work on scheduled tasks, and making sure that they're not run concurrently, 
which could cause the tasks needed to be done, done two or more times. There's also work on quashig any
 race conditions that could potentially happen. 
This work is a continuation of the work described below under, B<Bridge, Lock Files, and zombie processes>. 

=head1 10.0.2

This is mostly a bug-fix release for issues found in v10.0.1 of Dada Mail. 

=head2 Changes

=head3 New Option for HTML Email Messages: Embed of Link Images

By default, all images in an HTML message are attached and embedded within the email message itself. 

This can lead to large email messages, so we've added a new option to simply link to these images instead. 
Look for the option in the List Control Panel under, B<Mass Mailing: Options>. 
This will affect all email messages sent out from a mailing list, 
not just messages sent out in a mass mailing. 

=head3 Content-Disposition header added to embeded image attachments

Related to the abov change, the C<Content-Disposition> header appears to have been missing from the 
MIME part that relates to the attached images. 
This may cause the embedded image to show up by itself at the end of a message, depending on your mail reader. 
We hope the iclusion of this header will stop this from happenig in most mail readers. 

=head3 Bridge, Lock Files, and zombie processes

This is a big one, if you are running discussion mailing lists. 
We've made a few changes, to help make running multiple mailing lists with Bridge a lot smoother. 

The first change we've made is making sure the lockfile created is specifically named for the mailing list being worked on. 
In the past, the SAME lockfile was used for all mailing lists, 
so if there was a problem with one mailing list, 
the next mailing list worked on may not be successful, because the lock was still "live", basically. 
Bridge would also not unlock the lockfile if there was say, a error with logging into the POP3 server, 
causing problems on additional runs of the plugin. 
This may culminate into zombie processes of Dada Mail, as well as perhaps even the POP3 daemon, which may have a connection kept open by a zombie process. 
All of this isn't good stuff, and we hope to have cleared out this problem. 

If you're experiencing zombie processes, and you're running mailing lists with Bridge enabled, these above issues may be affecting you. 
Upgrading could help you out, immensely. 

=head3 Javascript Scrubber Disabled

For the time being, the Javascript scrubber for Dada Mail has been disabled, 
as it also breaks HTML links that have template tags embedded within them. 

=head1 10.0.1

=head2 Focus 

This is mostly a bug-fix release for issues found in v10.0.0 of Dada Mail. 

=head2 Bugfixes

=head3  Data in Email Templates not properly UTF-8 Decoded

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/604>

=head3 Previews do not work on upgraded Dada Mails, because the table previews are stored is never created 

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/606>

=head3  Schedule and Stationary screens do not have Preview button

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/605>

=head3 Using Preview with no content gives no results

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues/603>


=head1 10.0.0

=head2 Features

=head3 Enhanced Email Messages

=head4 Powered by Foundation for Emails

Foundation for Emails (L<http://foundation.zurb.com/emails.html>) is a framework to develop HTML email messages that, "I<Sucks Less>": they're beautiful, responsive, and look correctly in most HTML-capable email readers - even Outlook! 

Work with these HTML emails via Sass Workflow:

L<https://foundation.zurb.com/emails/docs/sass-guide.html>

Dada Mail's quiver of HTML email templates has been turned into its own Github project: 

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada_mail_foundation_email_templates>

which you may use as a starter for your own customized email templates for Dada Mail:

L<http://dadamailproject.com/d/features-email_themes.pod>

=head4 Email Themes

Dada Mail now has support for B<Email Themes>: collections of email templates that you may use to customize the look and feel of your email messages. 

Currently, Dada Mail comes with one email theme and supports additional custom themes.

=head4 Mass Mailing Email Layouts

Email Themes include the ability to choose a specific layout for your mass mailing to be wrapped up in. 

Currently, the following layouts are available: 

=over

=item * Full Layout

=item * Minimal Layout

=item * For Discussion List Messages

=item * Don't use a Layout 

=back

=head4 Mass Mailing Preview

Without needing to send a test message out, you may now preview how your mass mailing will look, right in the Send a Message screen. This makes it easy to try different layouts and other options out, before comitting to sending to your entire mailing list. 

=head4 Preheader support 

Set a B<Preheader> for your mass mailings in the Send a Message and Send a Webpage screens. Use the preheader to summarize, preview, and entice subscribers into reading the rest of your message. 

=head4 Set a logo image as well as social network links in your email messages

The newly improved HTML email messages also support showing a logo, and list social media likns - these all can be set 
under B<Mailing List - List Information>

=cut