=pod

=head1 Subscription Cookbook

=head2 How to Subscribe an Email Address to a Mailing List

A challenge people face is trying to tie Dada Mail's subscription system with another system, like a checkout part of a shopping cart, boards/forum, blog or CMS software.

=head2 RESTful API

Dada Mail has an, B<EXPERIMENTAL> RESTful API. 

B<POST> a request to your Dada Mail URL, with the following path: 

L<http://example.com/cgi-bin/dada/mail.cgi/json/subscribe>

(C</json/subscribe> is the PATH INFO you need)

Your POST Data will need to be in JSON, and have the following two fields, and an optional third: 

=over

=item * list

B<list> holds the list shortname you would like to make the subscription to

=item * email

B<email> holds the email address you would like the subscription for

=item * fields

B<Optional>: B<fields> holds the Profile Fields you would like to pass. 

=back

Here's an example of data in JSON to subscribe, B<user@example.com> to a list, B<mylist>: 

	{
	   "email" : "user@example.com",
	   "list" : "mylist"
	}

Here's an example, with two Profile Fields, C<first_name> and C<last_name>: 

	{
	   "email" : "user@example.com",
	   "fields" : {
	      "last_name" : "Example",
	      "first_name" : "Jason"
	   },
	   "list" : "mylist"
	}

B<Results> will also come back as JSON. For example, a successful request will return the following JSON document: 

	{
	   "email" : "user@example.com",
	   "redirect" : {
	      "query" : "list=mylist&email=user%40example.com&status=1&rm=sub_confirm",
	      "using_with_query" : 1,
	      "url" : "http://example.com/alt_url_sub_confirm_success.html",
	      "using" : 1
	   },
	   "status" : 1,
	   "success_message" : "<h1>Request Successful, Check Your Email!</h1> [...]",
	   "list" : "mylist"
	}

=over

=item * email

B<email> holds the email address you passed. 

=item * list

B<list> holds the list short name you passed. 

=item * status

B<status> tells you if the request worked, or not.

A value of C<1> means success, a value of, C<0> means failure.

If a request is successful, the following will also be returned: 

=over

=item * success_message

B<success_message> holds the success message, for this particular request in HTML. 

=back

If a request comes back as failing, the following will also be returned: 

=over

=item * errors

Problems with a request be listed in the, B<errors> array. The following errors may be returned: 

=over

=item * invalid_list

=item * invalid_email

=item * subscribed

=item * invite_only_list

=item * closed_list

=item * mx_lookup_failed

=item * black_listed

=item * not_white_listed

=item * over_subscription_quota

=item * already_sent_sub_confirmation

=item * settings_possibly_corrupted

=back

For example, sending a request with an invalid email address, 

	{
	   "email" : "invalid email",
	   "list" : "mylist"
	}

Will return a JSON document, like this: 

	{
	   "email" : "",
	   "redirect" : {
	      "query" : "list=mylist&email=&status=0&rm=sub_confirm&errors[]=invalid_email",
	      "using_with_query" : 1,
	      "url" : "http://example.com/alt_url_sub_confirm_failed.html",
	      "using" : 1
	   },
	   "errors" : {
	      "invalid_email" : 1
	   },
	   "status" : 0,
	   "error_descriptions" : {
	      "invalid_email" : "<h1>Double Check Your Email Address</h1> [...]"
	   },
	   "list" : "mylist"
	}

B<email> and, B<list> will be returned as you sent them, B<status> will have a value of, C<0> (meaning there was a problem), and the B<error> array will have one entry in it, with a B<key> of, B<invalid_email> (the error), and a value of, C<1>. 

=item * error_descriptions

Also on failure, another array named, B<error_descriptions> will also be returned. This holds a description of any errors produced. Keys will be named the same as the errors, but the values will be a description of what the error means, in HTML. 

=back

Make sure your requests are made with the B<list> and B<email> params set in your POST DATA, and set the C<Content-Type> to C<application/json>. The returned JSON will be sent with a C<Content-Type> of, C<application/json> 

Dada Mail supports custom URL redirects, for many of its subscription request functions, and these custom redirect settings are also passed to you in the return JSON document. 

=item * redirect

Both successful and failed requests may also pass a B<redirect> array, with the following: 

=over

=item * url

B<url> holds the URL used to redirect, for the particular request made.

=item * query 

B<query> holds a query string you may append to the URL, if you would like to pass information to the redirect URL. 

=item * using

B<using> is set to, C<1> if the mailing list settings say that this redirect is enabled. 

=item * using_w_qa

B<using_w_qa> is set to, C<1> if the mailing list settings say that this redirect is enabled, and using the query string. 

=back

All these parameters are passed to you, but it is your choice on whether you want to use or ignore them. 

=back

=head3 Situations That Require Additional User Input

There are some cases where a redirect back to Dada Mail will be required, to handle the request correctly. 

For example, Dada Mail can be set up to limit the amount of subscription requests made, per a particular email address, to a particular mailing list. 

So if > 1 request is made, rather than try to handle it twice, Dada Mail will instead return with a failure. When handled by Dada Mail itself, the user would then be presented with the option to resend a subscription request, after a CAPTCHA is filled out. 

This isn't something you can do, purely with the RESTful API, but you can see if you need to point the user to Dada Mail. 

For example, say this is the second request to subscribe: 

	{
	   "email" : "user@example.com",
	   "list" : "mylist"
	}

Rather than a succesful request, the following JSON will be returned: 

	{
	   "email" : "user@example.com",
	   "redirect" : {
	      "query" : "list=dadatest&email=user%40example.com&status=0&rm=sub_confirm&errors[]=already_sent_sub_confirmation",
	      "using_with_query" : 1,
	      "url" : "http://example.com/cgi-bin/dada/mail.cgi?flavor=show_error&email=user%40example.com&list=dadatest&error=already_sent_sub_confirmation",
	      "using" : 1
	   },
	   "errors" : {
	      "already_sent_sub_confirmation" : 1
	   },
	   "status" : 0,
	   "redirect_required" : "subscription_requires_captcha",
	   "error_descriptions" : {
	      "already_sent_sub_confirmation" : "use redirect"
	   },
	   "list" : "mylist"
	}

The errror, B<already_sent_sub_confirmation> will have an associated C<error_description> with a value of, C<use redirect>. The C<redirect> array will have a key, C<url>, whose value will be the URL you'll need to redirect your user to, to complete the request. 

=head2 JSONP

This API also supports sending a request using JSONP. 

If using JSONP, make sure to append the PATH INFO, with the query string, setting the name of your callback, like this: 

http://example.com/cgi-bin/dada/mail.cgi/json/subscribe?callback=mycustomcallback

Sending data over via B<POST> is not supported in JSONP, in general, so you'll want to send over the fields you usually would send as a JSON payload, in the query string, as well. 

Along with the usual fields, C<list>, C<email>, etc, you'll want to send another field called, C<_method> with a value of, C<GET>. This is to tell Dada Mail you're sending a, B<JSONP> request. 

The entire query string could look like this:

http://example.com/cgi-bin/dada/mail.cgi/json/subscribe?callback=mycustomcallback&_method=GET&list=mylist&email=user@example.com&first_name=Jason&last_name=Example

The JSONP document will be returned, encapsulated by the callback function name: 

	mycustomcallback({
	   "email" : "test@example.com",
	   "status" : 1,                
	   "list" : "mylist"         
	   [ ... ]
	});

When calling via JSONP, the C<Content-Type> will be send back as, C<application/javascript>, rather than, C<application/json>

=head2 Example Implementations

=head3 JavaScript/jQuery

The following is a bare-bones example on how to use the JSONP API to send a subscription request using jQuery - but  it still supports
custom redirects, as well as any needed redirects for additional user input: 

	$.ajax({
		url: 'http://example.com/cgi-bin/dada/mail.cgi/json/subscribe',
		type: "GET",
		dataType: "jsonp",
		cache: false,
		data: {
	        _method: 'GET', 
			list:  'mylist',
			email: 'test@example.com',
			first_name: 'Jason', 
			last_name: 'Example'
		},
	    contentType: "application/json; charset=UTF-8",
		success: function(data) {
			console.log('data:' + JSON.stringify(data)); 
			var html = ''; 
			if(data.status === 0){ 												
				$.each(data.errors, function(index, value) {
					console.log(index + ': ' + value);
				});
				$.each(data.error_descriptions, function(index, value) {
					html += value;
				});
			}
			else { 
				html += data.success_message;
			}
			if(typeof data.redirect_required === 'undefined') {
				if(data.redirect.using === 1) {
					if(data.redirect.using_with_query === 1){ 
						window.location.href = data.redirect.url + '?' + data.redirect.query; 
					}
					else { 
						window.location.href = data.redirect.url;
					}
				}
				else { 
						/* Display "html" */
					}); 
				}
			}
			else { 
				/* Success, or Error: it may not be something we can work with: */
				//alert(data.redirect_required); 
				window.location.href = data.redirect.url;
			}
		},
		error: function(xhr, ajaxOptions, thrownError) {
			console.log('status: ' + xhr.status);
			console.log('thrownError:' + thrownError);
			/* Uh oh... */
		}
	}); 

=head3 Perl

The following is a bare-bones example on how to use the JSON API to send a subscription request, using Perl: 

	#!/usr/bin/perl 
	
	use JSON;
	use HTTP::Request;
	use HTTP::Request::Common;
	use LWP::UserAgent;
	use Data::Dumper;
	
	my $ua = LWP::UserAgent->new;
	
	my $json = JSON->new->allow_nonref;
	my $data = $json->utf8->encode(
	    {
	        list  => 'mylist',
	        email => 'test@example.com',
	    }
	);
	
	my $response = $ua->request(
	    POST 'http://example.com/cgi-bin/dada/mail.cgi/json/subscribe',
	    'Content-Type' => 'application/json',
	    Content        => $data
	);
	
	if ( $response->is_success ) {
	
	    my $r = $json->utf8->decode( $response->decoded_content );
		
	    print Dumper($r);
		
	    if ( $r->{status} == 1 ) {
	        print "Success!\n";
	    }
	    else {
	        print "Problems!\n";
	    }
	}
	else {
	    die $response->decoded_content;
	}

=head3 PHP

If you can, please contribute an example!

=head3 Python

If you can, please contribute an example!

=head3 Ruby

If you can, please contribute an example!

=head2 jQuery Plugin 

Dada Mail comes with a jQuery Plugin, that can be used to create a subscription form on a webpage, handle the request and show the results in a modal window, only redirecting the user if additional steps are required. The plugin uses the RESTful API, described above.

To use the jQuery plugin, you'll first need to load the plugin's .js file, along with other .js files it requires, in the head of your document: 

	<script src="http://example.com/dada_mail_support_files/static/javascripts/jquery-1.8.2.min.js"></script>
	
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="http://example.com/dada_mail_support_files/static/css/colorbox/colorbox.css">
	<script src="http://example.com/dada_mail_support_files/static/javascripts/colorbox/jquery.colorbox-min.js"></script>
	
	<script src="http://example.com/dada_mail_support_files/static/javascripts/jquery.dadamail.js"></script>


B<jquery.dadamail.js> is the jQuery plugin itself, but it does require B<jQuery> to be loaded (in our case, it's called, B<jquery-1.8.2.min.js>), as well the Colorbox jQuery plugin (L<http://www.jacklmoore.com/colorbox/>). 

All these are bundled with Dada Mail, but you may use your own copies, if you'd like. To change the design of the modal window that pops up, you'll want to work with Colorbox's own .css file. 

The jQuery plugin has two "methods" you may use.

=head2 CreateSubscribeForm

	$(document).ready(function() {
	
		var targetDiv = '#mydiv';
	
		/* Initialize: */
		$(targetDiv).DadaMail(
			{
				DadaMailURL: 'http://example.com/cgi-bin/dada/mail.cgi', 
				list: 'yourlist', 
				modal: 1
			}
		)
	
		/* Create the form: */
		$(targetDiv).DadaMail('CreateSubscribeForm');
		
	}); 

B<CreateSubscribeForm> will place a subscription form in a div with the id of, B<mydiv>

=head3 Initialization Paramaters

To work correctly you'll need to pass the following paramaters: 

=over

=item * DadaMailURL

B<DadaMailURL> should hold the URL to your Dada Mail

=back

Optionally, the following paramaters may also be passed: 

=over

=item * list

B<list> should hold a list short name of the list you want your subscription form to be for. If no B<list> parameter is passed, 
the subscripton form made will have a dropdown widget to allow your user to select which mailing list they would like to subscribe to. 

=item * modal

B<modal> (default: C<1>) allows you to set if the results of requests submitted from the form are shown in a modal window, or if results are shown in the entire browser window, by redirecting directly to Dada Mail. 

To show in the modal window, B<modal> should be set to, C<1>, to redirect, B<modal> should be set to, C<0> 

=back

=head2 Modal

The B<Modal> method will allow you to have a Dada Mail subscription form I<already present on your webpage> controlled by this plugin: 

B<JavaScript:>

	$(document).ready(function() {
	
		var targetDiv = '#mydiv';
		
		/* Initialize: */
		$(targetDiv).DadaMail(
			{
				targetForm: 'myForm'
			}	
		);
		
		/* Control the form: */
		$(targetDiv).DadaMail('Modal');
		
	});

B<Your Subscription Form:>

	<div id="mydiv">
		<form action="http://example.com/cgi-bin/dada/mail.cgi"  id="myForm">
			<input type="hidden" name="flavor" value="subscribe" />
			<input type="hidden" name="list" value="mylist" />
			<input type="text" name="email" value="" />
			<input type="submit" value="Subscribe" />
		</form>
	</div>


The subscription form with the id of, "myForm" will now show its results in a modal window. This method only has one, required paramater: 

=over

=item * targetForm

This should hold the id of the form you would like this plugin to control. 

=back

The subscription form itself needs to have the following form fields, which are the same form fields used for any Dada Mail mailing list subscription form: 

=over

=item * flavor 

Set to, C<subscribe>

=item * list

B<list> holds the B<list short name> of the mailing list you want to subscribe to

=item * email

B<email> is the form field used by your user, to type in their email address in. 

=back

The B<action> of the form also should be the URL to your Dada Mail (C<http://example.com/cgi-bin/dada/mail.cgi>). If done correctly, the form alone should make a successful request to your Dada Mail install, thus working even if JavaScript has been disabled. 

=head3 Shared Optional Paramaters

Both these two methods may pass these optional paramaters during initialization: 

=over

=item * mode

B<mode> may be set to either, C<json> to send a json request, or C<jsonp> to send a jsonp request. By default, this paramater is set to, C<jsonp>. 

jsonp will need to be used when you want to use a subscription for across different domains. 

=item * LoadingMessage

B<LoadingMessage> holds HTML text, that's then shown as a, "loading..." message, while the request is sent to Dada Mail. 

=item * LoadingError

B<LoadingError> holds HTML text, that's then shown if there's a communication problem with Dada Mail. 

=back

=head2 Perl API

You may use Dada Mail's own modules in your own app, see: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/d/App_Subscriptions.pm.html>

=head2 Command Line Utility - subscribe_email.pl

Find a copy of C<subscribe_email.pl> in the Dada Mail distro at: 

C<dada/extras/scripts/subscribe/subscribe_email.pl> 

=head3 Arguments

Run C<subscribe_email.pl> as a shell script, like this: 

 prompt>perl ./subscribe_email.pl --list mylist --email user@example.com 

C<--list> should hold the listshortname of the list you want to subscribe to. 

C<--email> should hold the email address you want to subscribe. 

C<--verbose> is optional. If set to, C<1>, you will get a small report on the request. 

You can also pass Profile Fields for the subscriber, just use the, C<-fields> parameter: 

 prompt>perl ./subscribe_email.pl --list mylist --email user@example.com ---fields first_name=John --fields last_name=Doe

C<subscribe_email.pl> can also be called from within another script using something like Perl's, C<exec> function. 

=head3 PHP Example

Here's an example for a php script, that uses php's C<shell_exec> function (make sure to change the permissions of C<subscribe_email.pl> to, C<755>): 

	<?php
		var $email = 'user@example.com'; 
		var $list  = 'mylist'; 
		shell_exec("/home1/zazarazz/public_html/dadamail/extras/scripts/subscribe/subscribe_email.pl --list $list --email $email");
	?>

To make things easier I<while testing>, you may wish to disable Dada Mail's feature of limiting Subscription Confirmations. This feature disallows someone to continually attempt to subscribe the same email address. In testing, this may be exactly what you'd like to do. 

In, I<Your Mailing List - Options> 

Uncheck the option, I<Limit Subscription Confirmation Sending>. Once done testing, you may want to re-enable this option. 

 Limit Subscription Confirmation Sending 

=head3 Other examples

=head4 FormMail Integration

See the sourcecode to FormMail to see how we integrated Dada Mail subscription capabilities in this simple form handler:

http://dadamailproject.com/d/Dada-ized_FormMail_README.pod.html

=head4 TFmail Integration 

See the sourcecode to TFmail to see how we integrated Dada Mail subscription capabilities in this simple form handler:

http://dadamailproject.com/d/Dada-ized_TFMail_README.pod.html

=cut
