=pod

=head1 Dada Mail 6 to Dada Mail 7 Upgrade Guide

=head2 PlainText Backend - DEPRECATED

The stable release of v7.0.0 has the PlainText backend marked as DEPRECATED and will be fully removed at a later date. 

This will help make the app more streamlined by removing a good chunk of the codebase that's rarely used. Most new features of Dada Mail cannot be utilized when using the PlainText backend anyways, which leads to confusion with users, as well as complicating the codebase, as checks have to make on what exactly the backend supports. 

=head2 Database Schema

Small changes have been made to the database schema, from v6 to v7, all of which should 
be changed by Dada Mail, on the first run, after an installation. The following should 
describe these changes, if you would like to apply them maually (always make a backup)

The C<dada_subscribers> table has a new C<timestamp> column. 

MySQL/PostgreSQL: 

    ALTER TABLE dada_subscribers ADD timestamp TIMESTAMP DEFAULT NOW();

SQLIte: 

    ALTER TABLE dada_subscribers ADD timestamp TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP';

The C<dada_profile_fields_attributes> table has a new, C<required> column: 

    ALTER TABLE dada_profile_fields_attributes ADD required char(1) DEFAULT 0 NOT NULL

=head2 Template Changes

=head2 Oldstyle Template Tag Support: Dropped

Oldstyle template tags looked like this: 

    [tag]
    
Support for this style has been dropped. Please use any style that's supported by C<HTML::Template> (the underlying template engine used by Dada Mail), like htis: 

    <!-- tmpl_var tag -->
    
    HTML that can be edited in the B<Appearance and Templates >> HTML Screen Templates> list control panel had their default values stored in the Config.pm file. 

    This hinders customization and internationalization, testing, as well as adding extra bulk to the already-too large Config.pm file. The values of these variables have now been templated out into their own files                        located in the, I<dada/templates/list> directory

=head2 Config.pm default variables of email messages have been removed, templated out

Email messages, that can be edited in the, B<Appearance and Templates >> Email Message Templates> screen (as well as other email messages, that can be customized in various other places) had their default values stored in the Config.pm file. 

This hinders customization and internationalization, testing, as well as adding extra bulk to the already-too large Config.pm file. The values of these variables have now been templated out into their own files located in the, I<dada/templates/email> directory. 

The removal of these variables (as well as HTML screens) has removed over 1,100 lines from the Config.pm file. 

=head2 New Deprecated Plugins/Extensions

None! 

Even Beatitude (Scheduled Mailer) will still be around for v7.0.0, and should be able to support the new partial mailing list features (timestamp date range!) Beatitude is still listed as B<deprecated>, but will not be removed (or rewritten), until its features (or similar) are available in another form.

=cut
