=pod

=head1 Dada Mail 9 to Dada Mail 10 Upgrade Guide

This guide was compiled to get you ready to upgrade to Dada Mail v10.

=head2 Focus

This release primarily focuses on getting our email messages sent by Dada Mail to use the really beautiful and awesome HTML produced by the B<Foundation for Emails Framework>. 

You can learn more about Foudnation for Emails here: 

L<http://foundation.zurb.com/emails.html>

In past versions of Dada Mail, ALL transactional email messages only had a plaintext-only "option" available. The new HTML emails look so much better, and probably rank much higher on usability. We're excited!

To support Foundation for Emails, we've had to make I<considerable> changes to 
the internal code of Dada Mail. A new dependency is now required to run Dada Mail: the Perl CPAN module, C<LWP>. This is the same module required to use the B<Send a Webpage> screen. If B<Send a Webpage> is working, you should be covered for this dependency. 

The following CPAN Perl Modules aren't required, but definitely recommended to 
have the best experience when running Dada Mail: 

=over

=item * CSS::Inliner

=item * HTML::Parser

=item * HTML::Packer

=item * CSS::Packer

=back

=head2 New Dada Mail-Specific CPAN Modules

There are many optional CPAN Perl modules that Dada Mail takes advantage of. Now, all these Perl modules have been bundled together in one CPAN Module called, C<Bundle::DadaMail>. Now, just install C<Bundle::DadaMail> and have all those other modules installed in one step. 

Another CPAN Perl Module, called C<Bundle::DadaMailXXL> has also been created that bundles B<all> the CPAN Perl modules used in Dada Mail, including what's listed in C<Bundle::DadaMail>, in case you would like to install all the dependencies required for Dada Mail.

More information: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/d/FAQ-general.pod.html#how_do_you_install__cpan_perl_modules>


=head2 No more "Appearance - Email Message Templates" list control panel

Because the workflow to create the new HTML emails is based on Foundation for Emails SASS workflow (L<https://foundation.zurb.com/emails/docs/sass-guide.html>),
which is done offline (via your desktop/laptop/etc), 
we've removed the ability to edit these messages from within Dada Mail through the B<Appearance - Email Message Templates> screen. 
The HTML templates produced by the  framework is exceptionally complex - they just cannot be easily edited by hand. 
Using the SASS workflow is actally pretty approachable by a competent web designer or developer. 

Here's how to work with email themes, and create your own:

L<http://dadamailproject.com/d/features-email_themes.pod.html>

Each theme is available for all mailing lists. 

In it's place, B<Appearance - Email Themes> screen will now allow you to select the email theme that you would like to use. 

=cut