=pod

=head1 Dada Mail 4 to Dada Mail 5 Upgrade Guide

=head2 Database Schema

There are B<no> changes in any of the database schemas between Dada Mail 4 and Dada Mail 5. 

Upgrading is fairly straightforward, with no need for any Dada Mail 4 to Dada Mail 5 upgrade scripts. 

Users upgrading from Dada Mail v2 or v3 will still need to use the, C<dada3_to_dada4_sql.pl> upgrade script, 
but I<won't> have to first upgrade to Dada Mail v4 and then, v5. 

=head2 Template Changes

There has been considerable changes in the Dada Mail Templates (files that live in, I<dada/DADA/Template/templates>)

=head2 Default List Template and Admin Template Name Changes

The default list template has been renamed: C<list_template.tmpl> (from, C<default_list_template.tmpl>)

The default admin template has been renamed: C<admin_template.tmpl> (from, C<default_admin_template.tmpl>)

Both of these templates have been redesigned.

=head2 css Files Moved to, templates/css

css files Dada Mail uses are now in, I<dada/DADA/Template/templates/css>

C<default_css.css> has been renamed to, C<default.css>

=head2 Javascript Files Moved to, templates/js

Javascript files Dada Mail uses are now in, I<dada/DADA/Template/templates/js>

=head2 image files have been moved to, template/img

image files Dada Mail uses are now in, I<dada/DADA/Template/templates/img>

=head2 List Control Panel Changes

The List Control Panel has been redesigned, but most things are where they were in v4. 

=head2 Admin Menu Changes

The List Admin Menu has changed in the List Control Panel. If you are upgrading, tell 
the installer to keep the directory structure, but produce a new C<.dada_config> file. You B<will> 
need to reconfigure Dada Mail again, but use the same values for configuration as before. (if you 
forget what they are, view your old C<.dada_config> file and just copy the old values and paste them in the installer)

=head3 Your Subscribers

The B<Your Subscribers> heading has been renamed, B<Membership>

The B<Invite/Add> heading has been renamed, B<Invite/Add/Subscribe>. If you do not have 
Mass Subscribing via the List Control Panel enabled (it's disabled by default), it should read, B<Invite/Add>.

The, B<Edit Subscriber> screen, accessed by clicking an email address in the B<Membership (or Your Subscribers) - View> 
screen is now called, B<Membership> and has additional features

B<Membership - List Activity> is a new screen.

The B<View> screen has been given a hefty design. We hope it's not as I<Guuuuuugh!> 
as previous, "designs".  

=head3 Your Mailing List

B<Change List Information> has been renamed to, B<List Information> 

B<Change List Password> has been renamed to, B<List Password>

=head3 Black List and White List Options

Black/White List Options are now located in the, B<Membership - Options> screen

=head3 Your List Control Panel

Has been moved to be after B<Plugins> and B<Extensions>

=head3 App Information

A new header titled, B<App Information> has been created. 

It contains B<Configuration>, renamed from B<Dada Mail Setup Info>, and, B<About Dada Mail>

=head3 List Page link, Logout and Switch Widget 

The link to your Mailing List's List Page, the Logout Link and the Mailing List Switch form have moved to the 
header of the Admin Template. 

=head2 REMOVED plugins/extensions

The following plugins/extensions have been removed from the main Dada Mail distribution. The have been marked as, B<deprecated> in 
previous versions of Dada Mail, or removed to provide a cleaner distribution: 

=over

=item * clickthrough_tracking.cgi

Replaced by the, C<tracker.cgi> plugin

=item * email_list_owners.cgi

=item * mx_lookup.cgi

=item * dada_backup.pl

Best to use the SQL backend and backup your database. 

=item * dada_tester.cgi

Best to simply run, C<prove -r> from the, C<dada> directory. 

=item * auto_pickup.pl

Replaced by the, <mailing_monitor.cgi> plugin

=back

=head2 DEPRECATED plugins/extensions

=over

=item * multi_admin_subscribers.cgi

Has been removed as of v5.1.0 of Dada Mail

=item * dada_digest.pl

Will be removed in a future version of Dada Mail. This script does not kindly reflect the code or documentation quality we'd like to strive for in the Dada Mail project. 



=back
