=pod

=head1 Converting a Dada Mail Install From a Default Backend to an SQL Backend

=head1 Introduction

By default, Dada Mail does not use an SQL backend, but rather uses a simpler method of using a PlainText file for your mailing list subscribers (the format is one email per line) and using what's called, B<dbm> files for everything else: list settings, archives, schedules, etc. Most likely, you're using the B<Berekeley DB File> format. 

Although easier to set up, the Default backend for Dada Mail does not have as many features as the B<SQL> backend alternative. These include Subscriber Profile Fields, Partial Mailing List Sending, Multiple Mailing List Sending and some other neat things. 

=head1 A Contempory Installation

We highly suggest that you use the SQL Backend with a Contemporary Installation setup and NOT the Basic Installation setup. If you're not currently using a Contemporary Installation Method, switch:

L<http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/basic_two_contemporary_installation.pod.html>

=head1 Setup a SQL Database

Instructions on Setting up Dada Mail's SQL Database Backend can be found here: 

http://dadamailproject.com/installation/configuration-sql_backend.html

=head1 Run the Export Scripts

There are B<three> separate export scripts that can be run, to move your Mailing List information from the Default backend, to the SQL backend. 

The can be found in the, 

C<dada/extras/scripts>

directory of your Dada Mail distribution. 

We suggest that you move them into the, 

C<dada> 

directory before you run them. 

They require B<no> configuration themselves and installation is as simple as moving them into the C<dada> directory and changing their permissions to, C<755> but should be run in this order: 

=over

=item * dada_settings_dbtosql.pl

Docs: 

http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/dada_settings_dbtosql.pl.html


=item * dada_archive_dbtosql.pl

Docs: 

http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/dada_archive_dbtosql.pl.html


=item * dada_subscribers_plaintext2sql.pl

Docs: 

http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/dada_subscribers_plaintext2sql.pl.html

=back


=item * dada_clickthrough_plaintext2sql.pl

I<You'll only need to run this, if you were using the Clickthrough Tracking extension or Tracker plugin>

Docs: 

http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation/dada_clickthrough_plaintext2sql.pl.html

=back


You may run them by simply visiting the scripts in your web browser, or running them from a shell. 

B<Do Not> run these scripts twice, or data will be doubled-up. 

=cut
