=pod

=head1 The Dada Mail SPAM FAQ

This document is to highlight, bold and underline the stance of the author and his views on SPAM. 

=over


=item * Is Dada Mail created to send SPAM

No, 

Dada Mail has been created to allow people to send email to a subscription list. 

=item * Do you send SPAM

No, 

I do not send SPAM

=item * Does any of the hosting providers that you rent or buy from send SPAM or 
use any equipment that they own or rent to send SPAM

No, they do not. My hosting providers also, do not send SPAM and have been 
incredibly understanding with false reports.

My hosting providers businesses are at stake if they are, in fact, blacklisted and they do not appreciate fake reports of SPAM on their system.

My hosting providers understand Dada Mail and thus have no problem with its development. 

=item * I have gotten SPAM email from what I think is Dada Mail, I though you 
said you don't send SPAM, what's the story?

Dada Mail is not a hosted program, Dada Mail is downloaded and installed on a server and all activity by the program happens at that point. I do not have any control over what people do with the program. 

=item * Is there a backdoor to Dada Mail so that I can hack the installation and give those spamers a lesson? 

No, 

there is no backdoor to Dada Mail. Hacking someone elses site is unethical and probably illegal. An eye for an eye is not the way to go. 

=item * I've gotten SPAM from what I think is Dada Mail, I want off. Can you get me off? 

No, but I can help you get off. 

The default, 'out of the box', distribution that you get from the Dada Mail support website has many, many ways to unsubscribe and unless a SPAMMER actually changes the underlying code of Dada Mail, they should all work:

=over 

=item Default Footer

Each mailing list Message sent using Dada Mail will have a default footer with instructions on how to unsubscribe and a link you can click to unsubscribe yourself.

=item List Headers 

Each mailing list message send using Dada Mail will contain email list headers that look like this: 

	List: the_list
	List-Archive: http://theirsite.com/cgi-bin/dada/mail.cgif=archive&list=my_list
	List-ID: 20020331090837
	List-Owner: <them@theiraddress.com>
	List-Subscribe: http://theirsite.com/cgi-bin/dada/mail.cgi?f=n&l=my_list
	List-Unsubscribe: http://theirsite.com/cgi-bin/dada/mail.cgi?f=u&l=my_list
	List-URL: http://theirsite.com/cgi-bin/dada/mail.cgi?l=my_list


There should be a header that says: B<List-Unsubscribe> followed by a link. Visiting that link in a web browser should give you a form to unsubscribe

=item Web Address

You can unsubscribe to any list by visiting a link that looks like this: 

	http://theirsite.com/cgi-bin/dada/mail.cgi?f=u

replacing B<theirsite.com> with the address that the copy Dada Mail was installed

=back 


=item * Will reporting SPAM to you help me receive less SPAM? 

Sadly, no. All I can do is give you the above directions and wish you luck. 

=item * Are you liable for SPAM email sent using Dada Mail?

No, 

Dada Mail is released under the GNU Public License, which specificaly states:

	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
	GNU General Public License for more details.
	
	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
	Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.


If you have any questions concerning the license, please send for a copy of the license. The Dada Mail distribution from the Dada Mail website should come with this license, you can also view it here: 

http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html

=item * How do I stop receiving SPAM? 

=over

=item Do not post your email address on a website

=item Do not submit your email address to an online form

=item Use a throwaway email address if you need to do either of the two


=back 



=item * I still think since you are held liable for what your program does, regardless of the license, what do you say about that? 

I like to give this quote out: 

	I think that technologies are morally neutral until we apply them. 
	It's only when we use them for good or for evil that they become good or
	 evil 
		- William Gibson 

I created Dada Mail for people to communicate. For me, Dada Mail is an art project. I have given anyone, anywhere a canvas to voice their dreams and it doesn't cost them anything to use. I want Dada Mail to be used to send out beautiful prose, a life's thesis, updates to the health of a loved one, a cry for help to a righteous cause. Abusing this right I've given you just reflects on the person's character. Dada Mail is a powerful tool, power can be currupted. Please do not be the one that currupts. 

=back

B<Justin Simoni> justin@skazat.com http://skazat.com

=cut

