=pod

=head1 Future! Features of Dada Mail  

These are broad ideas that we'd like to share about some new features we're like to bring into the fold of Dada Mail. 

=head1 Revamp of Mass-Subscribing in the list control panel 

We're looking for comments about this issue, here: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/support/boards/viewtopic.php?f=25&t=2457>

If you have ideas, please post them, we could really use your help! 

=head1 Mail Sending Web Services API Integration

Currently, there's two ways to send mail with Dada Mail: 

=over

=item * Using the local, "sendmail" command

which usually integrates with the local mail server

=item * Using an outside SMTP server

via the SMTP protocol

=back

There's been a lot of interesting Email Sending API services that are cropping up. A few I've been looking at: 

=over

=item * Postmark

L<http://postmarkapp.com>

=item * Amazon SES

L<http://aws.amazon.com/ses/>

=back

The most alluring reason to integrate these services are: 

=over

=item * The removal of sending speed limitations on shared hosting accounts

If you use an outside service (like the above), you don't use your hosting company's mail server, thus, you're not tied to their sending limitations. 

=item * Increase in successful deliveries 

These services claim to be  monitored much better than your hosting company's mail server. Because they have more information about you, they can stop people from abusing their services. Which, is great. 

=back

Some downsides: 

=over

=item * Cost

These services do have a cost to them. Generally, they're pretty low. 

=item * Configuration 

There needs to be some configuration done in Dada Mail to make them work. It's going to be similar to setting up stuff for SMTP sending. 

=back

=head1 See Also

There's a file in the distro at, 

I<dada/extras/developers/TODOlist.txt>

Which has a running list of ideas in a very very raw form. 



=cut
