=pod

=head1 The Dada Mail and UTF-8 FAQ

=head2 Introduction

Dada Mail can speak UTF-8 and almost expects that everything else around it does, too. 

That means: 

=over

=item * It treats everything it handles as UTF-8

=item * Everything it returns is in UTF-8

=back

=head2 How To Have a Pleasant Experience

If you're installing Dada Mail for the first time, there's nothing you'll need to do, 
but below are some guidelines on how to keep your lists configured, so you
continue to have a good experience. 

If you're upgrading, make sure your configuration reflects the advice below. 

It's heavily advised to keep everything in Dada Mail speaking C<UTF-8> without
any real exceptions. 

=head2 Config Variable: $HTML_CHARSET

By default, the config variable, C<$HTML_CHARSET> is set to, C<UTF-8> 

Keep it that way, same case (B<UTF-8>) - same everything. 

Dada Mail is only tested with the charset set this way. 

=head2 Mail Sending - Advanced Options

=head3 Default Character Set 

Set this as, C<UTF-8	UTF-8> 

=head3 Default Plain Text/HTML Message Encoding

There's really only a few choices recommended for Dada Mail. 

=over

=item * 8bit 

Should work. 

=item * quoted-printable

If you have any trouble with C<8bit>, try C<quoted-printable>. Because of the
amount of time that Dada Mail creates, tweaks, formats and templates out email
messages, the encoding can potentially get mucked up. 

This potential mucking-up is mitigated when Dada Mail uses C<quoted-printable> encoding
internally. This should be the default for email messages. 

=back

=head3 Encode Message Headers

Have this option checked. 

=head2 SQL Backends

=head3 Database

=head4 PostgreSQL

Encoding for PostgreSQL databases is done when the database is created - make sure
to create your database with a, C<UTF-8> encoding, like so: 

 CREATE DATABASE dadamail WITH ENCODING 'UTF-8'

=head4 MySQL 

Nothing you'll have to do, but do note that the schema that's shipped with 
Dada Mail for MySQL does set the character set and collation for UTF-8 in the tables
where this is needed.  If you're upgrading Dada Mail (from before 4.0.3), you may 
have to change the charset/encoding of your tables.  

You may also want to double-check the version of the Perl MySQL driver (C<DBD::mysql>) and 
make sure it has the, C<mysql_enable_utf8> flag support. It's difficult to tell from it's own
docs, but having at least version 4.004 would be prudent. 

=head4 SQLite 

Nothing you'll have to do. 

=head4 DBM Files

DBM Files have no encoding support, but Dada Mail knows this and compensates. 

=head3 Schema 

=head4 MySQL 

The MySQL schemas are set to create tables with an encoding of, C<UTF-8> 

=head4 PostgreSQL

Nothing has changed.

=head4 SQLite

Nothing has changed.

=head3 Drivers

The current support SQL backends, C<mysql> (MySQL), C<Pg> (PostgreSQL) and C<SQLite> all have different ways to somewhat, "enable" their UTF-8 support. 

=over

=item * MySQL 

add, 

 mysql_enable_utf8 => 1, 

has been added to the $DBI_PARAMS hashref. 

=item * PostgreSQL

add, 

 pg_enable_utf8 => 1, 

has been added to the $DBI_PARAMS hashref. 

=item * SQLite

add, 

 sqlite_unicode => 1

has been added to the $DBI_PARAMS hashref. 

=back

No explicit encoding/decoding is done in Dada Mail when saving/retrieving data. Hopefully, the drivers are UTF-8-aware enough. 

=head2 Plugins/Extensions 

The Plugins and Extensions that come with Dada Mail have not been as thoroughly tested as the main program. There's still warts. 

=head3 Bridge

Bridge has a unique position needing to handle a lot of different stuff thown at it and 
deal with it gracefully. Dada Mail I<does>, in fact, handle, any realistic character set/encoding you throw at it, 
but Dada Mail will convert messages it receives to its internal format, before it resends it out to your list. 

This means the encoding of your choice (8bit or quoted-printable) and the charset of your choice (as long as your charset is, UTF-8)

=head2 Upgrading

You are potentially going to have problems. 

Its possible that, since List Settings were never decoded/encoded correctly in past versions, they'll show up the program (once you've upgrade) incorrectly. 
The easiest thing to do is to edit the mistakes and resave the information. For most of the program, you're going to have to manually export the information and re-import it with the 
correct encoding, sadly. Dada Mail will probably fail gracefully with old information, but it's possible that you'll see squiggly charaters, instead of what you want to see. There's nothing in Dada Mail 
that will stop this from happening. If you experience it (from old information), we're not going to count it as a bug, but rather a known issue. 

=head2 MySQL Notes 


=head3 "Specified key was too long; max key length is 1000 bytes", Problem (and Solution)

What's recommended here is to alter some of the fields in some of the tables that make up the MySQL schema. 

The majority of the time, when a field is named, C<email> it looks like this: 

 email text(320),

Changing this field type from, C<text(320)> to, C<varchar(80)> will be both beneficial 
to this problem, as well as realistic. 

The reason why the email fields were set to a size of, C<320> is that the RFC says 
that email addresses can be this long. In reality, they never really are. Having a field 
type this long (especially when using for keys and indexes) tends to muck up things, 
when you have a utf-8 character set. 

You'll see this field in the table schemas, as well as the table indexes. The 
advice is to delete the old table indexes, alter your tables for anything that I<had> a field type of, C<text(320)> 
and make it, C<varchar(80)> and if you want, recreate the table indexes, using what's in the C<dada/extras/mysql_schema.sql> 
file.

Here's some SQL that should remove those indexes: 

 ALTER TABLE `dada_subscribers` DROP INDEX `dada_subscribers_all_index`;
 ALTER TABLE `dada_archives`    DROP INDEX `dada_subscribers_all_index`;

Here's some SQL that should work on changing the field types: 

 ALTER TABLE `dada_bounce_scores`  CHANGE `email` `email` VARCHAR( 80 );
 ALTER TABLE `dada_profiles`       CHANGE `email` `email` VARCHAR( 80 );
 ALTER TABLE `dada_profile_fields` CHANGE `email` `email` VARCHAR( 80 );
 ALTER TABLE `dada_subscribers`    CHANGE `email` `email` VARCHAR( 80 );

=head3 Changing the character set of tables

The following tables should have a character set of, C<utf8> and a collation of C<utf8_bin>

=over

=item * dada_settings

=item * dada_subscribers

=item * dada_profiles

=item * dada_profile_fields

=item * dada_profile_fields_attributes

=item * dada_archives

=back

A quick-and-dirty solution to changing the character sets (if they aren't already in UTF-8) is to just use the following queries: 

 ALTER TABLE `dada_settings` CONVERT TO CHARACTER SET utf8 COLLATE utf8_bin;
 
 ALTER TABLE `dada_profiles` CONVERT TO CHARACTER SET utf8 COLLATE utf8_bin;
 
 ALTER TABLE `dada_subscribers` CONVERT TO CHARACTER SET utf8 COLLATE utf8_bin;
 
 ALTER TABLE `dada_profile_fields` CONVERT TO CHARACTER SET utf8 COLLATE utf8_bin;
 
 ALTER TABLE `dada_profile_fields_attributes` CONVERT TO CHARACTER SET utf8 COLLATE utf8_bin;
 
 ALTER TABLE `dada_archives` CONVERT TO CHARACTER SET utf8 COLLATE utf8_bin;

There are downsides to this approach - most notably - any UTF-8 encoded (erm, kinda-encoded) stuff is going to get double-decoded, 
when Dada Mail accesses and uses the information. More information: 

L<http://www.mysqlperformanceblog.com/2009/03/17/converting-character-sets/>


=head2 Other Problems?

Please let us know via the Support Boards: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/support/boards/>

Or the developer mailing list: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/cgi-bin/dada/mail.cgi/list/dadadev/>

We would love to help you out. 

Thanks! 

=head2 See Also: 

=over

=item * The Absolute Minimum Every Software Developer Absolutely, Positively Must Know About Unicode and Character Sets (No Excuses!)

L<http://www.joelonsoftware.com/articles/Unicode.html>

=item * perlunitut - Perl Unicode Tutorial

L<http://perldoc.perl.org/perlunitut.html>

=item * perlunifaq - Perl Unicode FAQ

L<http://perldoc.perl.org/perlunifaq.html>

=back

=cut


