=pod

=head1 Multiple Mailing List Sending FAQ

=head2 Introduction

Multiple Mailing List Sending in Dada Mail allows you to create one message in 
Dada Mail's, "Send a Message", or "Send a Webpage" screens to more than one 
Mailing List at one time. 

Multiple Mailing List Sending has the idea of a host mailing list, which is just 
whatever mailing list you're currently logged into. 

Partial mailing list sending, using Dada Mail's Profile Fields is supported. 

=head2 Using Multiple Mailing List Sending

Multiple Mailing List Sending is currently available in the, B<Send a Message> and B<Send a Webpage> screens. 
If it's enabled and supported, you'll see  a field set labled, "+/- Multiple Mailing List Sending". 

Once revealed, you should be able to see a group of checkboxes, that will allow you to select 
one or more other mailing lists to send your message to. The host mailing list will always receive a copy of your message. 

If you do not see this field set, you either do not have the feature configured to be enabled, or do not have an installation 
that supports this feature. 

=head2 Requirements 

You'll need to be running Dada Mail with an SQL Subscriber backend. Any of them (MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite) will do. 

=head2 Configuration

Multiple List Sending is NOT enabled by default. To enable Multiple Mailing List Sending, add the following to your C<.dada_config> file: 

 $MULTIPLE_LIST_SENDING = 1; 

=head2 Configuring 

Currently, Dada Mail support two ways to send to multiple lists at once. You can
configure which way you'd like it to work in the config variable, C<$MULTIPLE_LIST_SENDING_TYPE>

The two types are, 

=head3 merged

I<(This is the default type)>

The C<merged> method collates all the subscribers you'd like to send into one mass mailing, 
weeding out duplicates and sends in a, "on behalf of" style. You're basically going to send 
a message from one list, to subscribers from another mailing list 
and it'll most likely look that way to people who receive the message. 

For example, all list settings (and tags, for list settings) will be from the host list, 
so if your host list is using SMTP sending, you're entire mailing will use SMTP sending. 

The only tags that will reflect the list the subscriber may be subscribed on (if it isn't the host list) 
is the, C<list_settings.list> and C<list_settings.list_name> tag. The unsubscription, list screen and other links will 
probably reflect the list the subscriber is subscriber on, though. 

This method is the faster of the two methods, but you don't have much say in which list 
a subscriber will be sent from. Because of that, it's highly recommended that you never use this 
method, without also enabling B<Global Black Listing> and B<Global Unsubscribe>. 

Generally, this method will make all your Dada Mail List act as if it's one giant mailing list. 

To use this multiple list sending type, add this to your C<.dada_config> file: 

	$MULTIPLE_LIST_SENDING_TYPE = 'merged'; 

To Enable B<Global Black Listing>, add this line to your C<.dada_config> file: 

	$GLOBAL_BLACK_LIST = 1; 

To Enable B<Global Unsubscribe>, add this line to your C<.dada_config> file: 

	$GLOBAL_UNSUBSCRIBE = 1; 

=head3 individual

The C<individual> method mass mails all the mailing lists you'd like to send to, 
on a per-list basis. Instead of one mass mailing that has subscribers from 
more than one list, each different list will be mass mailed separately, just with the same message. 

Because of this, the messages will appear and actually be from each mailing list you want to send to. 

The downside to this mode is that it could be much, much slower to create the mass mailings - 
to the point that this feature may not work as advertised, if you have large lists. Having individual mass mailings 
can also be very resource-intensive. 

Global Black Listing and Global Unsubscribe do not have to be turned on, as you're basically sending to more than one list, 
at the same time. This feature also has the option to have, or not have duplicate messages sent, if a subscriber is on more than 
one list. 

To use this multiple list sending type, add this to your C<.dada_config> file: 

	$MULTIPLE_LIST_SENDING_TYPE = 'individual';


=cut