=pod

=head1 Dada Mail Installation/Configuration - Command Line Interface

Dada Mail is installed/configured using the included installer, either using the installer's web-based interface, or the command line interface. 

The web-based interface works great if you are setting up and running Dada Mail in a CGI environment. Otherwise, you probably will want to use the command line interface. 

=head1 Installing Dada Mail via the CLI

=head2 Download Dada Mail

The latest version of Dada Mail will be listed on: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/download>

if you are a Pro Dada subscription, you may download the most recent version of Pro Dada at: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/pro_dada>

Copy the distribution to the directory you would like to install Dada Mail under. 

=head2 Uncompress the Distribution

Uncompress Dada Mail - this will create a new directory named C<dada>. Change into 
this directory:

    gunzip dada-8_0_0.tar.gz
    tar -xvf dada-8_0_0.tar
    cd dada

In the C<dada> directory, rename the, "installer-disabled" directory to simply, C<install> and change into this directory. 
Once in the C<installer> directory,change the permissions of the C<install.cgi> script to, C<755>: 

    mv installer-disabled installer
    cd installer
    chmod 755 install.cgi

You're now ready to run the C<install.cgi> install/configuration script.

To make sure permissions are set correctly,  we suggest running the C<install.cgi> script under the same owner as 
will run Dada Mail (or change the ownership of the files at a later on - just don't forget!)

=head1 Introduction to the Installation/Configuration Process

The C<install.cgi> script takes care of the following things: 

=over

=item * Creates the .dada_files directory structure

Dada Mail uses this directory structure to save it's configuration file, and 
keep its temporary files, among other things. If you use SQLite for your backend, 
the SQLite database will be saved here, as well. 

=item *  Writes the .dada_config configuration file. 

Dada Mail's global configuration file is called, C<dada_config> and is itself
written in Perl. Any global changes you would like to make to Dada Mail should be 
made in this file. The global defaults are located in C<dada/DADA/Config.pm>, it 
is not suggested that you make changes to this file. 

=item * Copies over static files

Dada Mail has a collection of static files that need to be copied over. 

Static files include images, stylesheets and javascript files - some of these need extra configuration. 
Dada Mail keeps all of these files in a directory called C<dada_mail_support_files>. 
The collection of these files will be copied from the, C<dada/static> 
directory of the distribution.

=item * Verifies configuration information

The installer will try to make sure that the information you submit is correct - files 
can be written where you ask them to be written, the database connection works, etc. 

=back

The C<install.cgi> script does not take care of any web server configuration. 
If you run Dada Mail under PSGI/Plack, you will need to configure your webserver (nginx, most likely) to run Dada Mail, once you start the PSGI process. 

More on running Dada Mail under nginx:

L<http://dadamailproject.com/d/features-psgi_support.pod.html>

=head1 Required Paramaters

The following parameters are required, if you're B<installing> Dada Mail. If you 
are B<upgrading> Dada Mail, there are separate options to make things easier: 
 
=head2 --dada_files_loc

Dada Mail needs a certain directory structure to keep its configuration files, 
temporary files, etc in.  The top directory will be called, ".dada_files" and 
will need to be readable/writable to whatever process runs Dada Mail. 

Set C<--dada_files_loc> to the B<parent> directory you would like the .dada_files 
directory to be created in. 
 
=head2 --program_url

The URL that will be used to access Dada Mail. 

=head2 --dada_root_pass

The Dada Mail Root Password you'd like to use

=head2 --support_files_dir_path --support_files_dir_url

Dada Mail keeps its static files in a directory called, "dada_mail_support_files"
(images/javascripts,etc). Set the parent directory this should be created in 
using these two parameters.

C<--support_files_dir_path> should contain the absolute server path to this directory

C<--support_files_dir_url> should contain the URL that maps to this directory

=head2 --backend

The backend you'd like to use. Can be set to use any of the following: 

=over

=item * mysql
 
Uses a MySQL database

=item * Pg

Uses a PostgreSQL database

=item * SQLite

Uses a SQLite database - good for testing/development, but most likely 
not something you want to use for production use. 

=back

If you set, C<--backend> to either, C<mysql>, or, C<Pg>, you will also have to pass
the following parameters: 

=over

=item * --sql_server

The SQL server

=item * --sql_port

SQL port - can be set to, "auto" to choose the default port for mysql and Pg

=item * --sql_database

The name of your SQL database

=item * --sql_username

Your SQL username

=item * --sql_password

Your SQL password

=back

=head1 Optional Paramaters 

=head2 --deployment_running_under

Dada Mail defaults to, "CGI". Supported are the following:

=over

=item * CGI

When running Dada Mail as a CGI scripts using something like Apache and mod_cgi,
most likely in a shared hosting environment. This is the default configuration, 
so you will not need to pass this parameter if you would like to run under CGI. 

=item * FastCGI

This will set up Dada Mail to run as a FastCGI script using CGI::Fast. This 
would be useful if you're running under Apache, but would like to run Dada Mail
as a FastCGI script using mod_fastcgi or mod_fcgi. 

If you want to run Dada Mail under a reverse proxy, we'd suggest instead using 
the PSGI deployment option instead

=item * PSGI

Use this option to run Dada Mail under PSGI/Plack. Doing so will set up Dada Mail's
own "app.psgi" script inside its "dada" directory, which you can then start up
and utilize  however you would like using the wonders of PSGI:  

    sudo plackup --port 9090 --host 127.0.0.1

=back

=head2 --install_plugins

Takes a comma separated (no space between the comma) list of plugin/extension names. 

The following plugins/extensions are supported: 

=over

=item * mailing_monitor

=item * change_root_password

=item * screen_cache

=item * log_viewer

=item * tracker

=item * bridge

=item * bounce_handler

=item * change_list_shortname

=item * password_protect_directories

=item * multiple_subscribe

=item * blog_index

=back
	
Example: 

	--install_plugins mailing_monitor,change_root_password,screen_cache

This also works: 

	--install_plugins mailing_monitor --install_plugins change_root_password --install_plugins screen_cache

=head2 --install_wysiwyg_editors

You may pass one of the following (or both), to setup and install the following WYSIWYG editors: 

=over

=item * ckeditor

=item * tiny_mce

=back

Example: 

    --install_wysiwyg_editors ckeditor,tiny_mce


=head2 --install_file_browser
	
pass B<either>, C<kcfinder> to install the KCFinder File Browser,
or pass, C<core5_filemanager> to install the Core5 Filemanager. 

Unlike the, C<--install_wysiwyg_editors> option, C<--install_file_browser> (and Dada Mail)
 only supports installing one file browser/manager at a time.


=head2 Amazon SES

Dada Mail supports Amazon SES to send messages out, sending verification 
email messages  and to find out  your sending stats and limitations. More information 
on Amazon SES support: 

L<http://dadamailproject.com/d/features-amazon_ses_support.pod.html>

To enable Amazon SES support you will need to pass your  C<AWSAccessKeyId> and C<AWSSecretKey>.

=over

=item * --amazon_ses_AWSAccessKeyId

Your AWSAccessKeyId

=item * --amazon_ses_AWSSecretKey
    
Your AWSSecretKey
    
=item * --amazon_ses_AWS_endpoint
    
Optionally, you may set the AWS Endpoint. Available endpoints are listed here: 
    
L<http://docs.aws.amazon.com/ses/latest/DeveloperGuide/regions.html>    

C<us-east> is used by default - use the full URL listed when setting the region
    
=item * --amazon_ses_Allowed_Sending_Quota_Percentage

Dada Mail can be configured to use all, or only part of your total Amazon SES quota. 
Setting this paramater will allow you to set that amount. For example, to allow 
Dada Mail to use only 50% of your total SES sending quota, set this paramater to the following: 

    --amazon_ses_Allowed_Sending_Quota_Percentage 50

=back

=head1 Examples

An example of invoking the installer with the above parameters: 

    ./install.cgi --program_url http://example.com/cgi-bin/dada/mail.cgi \
    --dada_root_pass secret \
    --dada_files_loc /home/example \
    --support_files_dir_path /home/example/public_html \
    --support_files_dir_url http://example.com \
    --backend mysql \
    --sql_server localhost \
    --sql_port 3306 \
    --sql_database dada_mail \
    --sql_username username \
    --sql_password password \
    --install_plugins mailing_monitor \
    --install_plugins change_root_password \
    --install_plugins screen_cache \
    --install_plugins log_viewer \
    --install_plugins tracker \
    --install_plugins multiple_subscribe \
    --install_plugins blog_index \
    --install_plugins change_list_shortname \
    --install_wysiwyg_editors ckeditor \
    --wysiwyg_editor_install_ckeditor \
    --wysiwyg_editor_install_tiny_mce \
    --file_browser kcfinder

Since the list of options is so long, it may make sense to put the entire command w/options in its own file,
so that you can resuse your own recipe for installing Dada Mail in multiple locations.

=head1 Upgrading

If you are using the installer to upgrade from an install of dada mail you've installed
beforeusing the installer, you may simply pass the, 

	--dada_files_loc
		
flag, as well as the, 

	--upgrading
	
parameter, and the installer will install Dada Mail, based on the previous values in your
global configuration.

You may then pass I<additional> parameters, to augment the previous configuration. 

For example: 

	./install.cgi --dada_files_loc /home/account --upgrading
	
Will upgrade Dada Mail, pulling the previous global config values, 

	./install.cgi --dada_files_loc /home/account --upgrading \
    --install_wysiwyg_editors ckeditor,tiny_mce \
	--install_plugins mailing_monitor,change_root_password,screen_cache
	
Will upgrade Dada Mail, pulling the previous global config values, as well as
making sure CKeditor and TinyMCE is installed, and the three plugins listed are also installed. 

You CANNOT use the, C<--dada_files_dir_setup> parameter with the, C<--upgrading> 
parameter. You must explicitly set the, C<--dada_files_loc>. 

If performing an partial upgrade or doing some of your installation manually, 
you can tell Dada Mail to skip some of the tests it would usually preform, before 
configuring Dada Mail: 

=over

=item * --dada_files_dir_setup 

If you pass this parameter with a value of, "auto", you do not need to 
pass the,  "--dada_files_loc" parameter provided that you're certain that 
the directory it automatically discovers to create the, ".dada_files" 
directory structure will be correct. The installer usually guesses the home 
directory.
	
=item * --skip_configure_SQL

By default, the installer will make sure the database you pass in, 
"--sql_database" doesn't already have the tables required for a Dada Mail
install. If you've already set up these tables (for example, in a previous
version of Dada Mail) pass this parameter with a value of, "1" to simply 
use the sql_* parameters you're passing, without attempting to set up 
the database, itself. 

=item * --if_dada_files_already_exists

If you pass, C<keep_dir_create_new_config>, the installer will install Dada Mail,
 even if a already-existing, C<.dada_files> directory is found. 

If you pass this parameter, C<skip_configure_dada_files>, NO other parameter is really 
required, except, C<--dada_files_loc>,  provided that the directory you pass in that parameter
 has an already-set up C<.dada_files> directory,  including a valid C<.dada_config> file. When passing this 
parameter, this  script will simply change the, "dada/DADA/Config.pm" file to point to 
the already-created C<.dada_files> directory.

=back

=head1 Other Paramaters

=head2 --help

Displays this help doc. Use: 
	
    ./install.cgi | less 
		
(or something similar) so that the script doesn't zoom to the end.

=head1 Bugs

Please file any problems at: 

L<https://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues> 

=cut
