=pod

=head1 Known Issues

For the complete Bug Tracker, please see: 

L<http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues>

If you'd like, please submit a new bug and comment on current bugs. 


=head2 Twitter Support

Twitter Support is currently not working, as the type of authorization Dada
Mail was utilising (Basic) has been dropped by Twitter in favor of a more substantial
authentication scheme called oAuth. 

http://github.com/justingit/dada-mail/issues#issue/66

=head2 CGI::Session Problems

CGI::Session is bundled with Dada Mail - you don't have to install it separately. In rare occurances, it doesn't work correctly. You may receive an error like this: 

 Wed Aug 2 19:23:06 2006] mail.cgi: Can't call method
 "param" on an undefined value at /DADA/App/Session.pm
 line 261.

Two solutions:

Remove the files in the, I<dada/DADA/perllib/CGI/Session*> files and directories

and install B<CGI::Session> and B<CGI::Session::ExpireSessions> manually or via CPAN. 

More information: 

http://search.cpan.org/~markstos/CGI-Session/lib/CGI/Session.pm

http://search.cpan.org/~rsavage/CGI-Session-ExpireSessions/lib/CGI/Session/ExpireSessions.pm

or, 

Set the Config.pm variable, B<$SESSION_DB_TYPE> to, "Classic". 

B<Do Note> that only attempt the second solution if you understand that the classic method will pass your list name and B<list password> across the network and save this information (albeit in an encrytped form) in your brower's cookie jar. Not the best situation, but if you're in a pinch, it may be a life-saver - but try to get one of the other options working ASAP. 

=head2 CPAN Perl modules/conflicts

B<Introduction:> 

Dada Mail relies on specific perl libraries that have a compiled version and a pure perl version. Usually, the compiled version is there as an option to enhance the speed of execution of the routines of the library itself. It's a good thing. 

B<Problem:> 

You cannot bundle the compiled version of these libraries within Dada Mail, because they need to be compiled specifically for the OS that Dada Mail will run on, and that list is very large. 

B<Solution?> 

At the moment, Dada Mail comes with a pure perl version of every perl library module that it B<requires>. Here is the list: 

=over

=item * MIME::Base64

=item * MIME::QuotedPrint

=item * Data::Dumper

=item * Digest

=item * Digest::MD5

=back

So, if you do not have these modules installed - it's OK, Dada Mail comes with the pure perl version of them. 

B<Problem With This Solution:> 

The catch 22 to this is: if you HAVE these modules installed - and it's a really good chance you have at least one in the group installed, Dada Mail may produce an error saying basically, "I've got a newer/different/better version already! - whatcha doin'?!" 

B<Solution to the Problem of the First Solution:> 

To counteract this, as of version B<2.9.1> The above modules will be included in Dada Mail, B<but> will not be active. This is done by appending, B<-remove_to_install> to the file name/directory of these perl library modules. To make them active, rename the module to not include, B<-remove_to_install>. 

Examples: 

=over

=item Base64.pm-remove_to_install -> Base64.pm

=item Data-remove_to_install -> Data

(Note: Data is directory)

=back

Easy enough? These files/directories are located in the: B<dada/DADA/perllib> directory of the Dada Mail distribution. 

If you can, install the compiled versions of these modules manually. If you can't/don't know how, rename the files as directed above. It's better to use the compiled version if you can. How to install these modules is a little over the pale of this particular document. 


=head2 Outside config file and variables set to 0

If you use the outside config file, and try to set a variable to, 0, it'll most likely fail, 
this is because in Perldom, 0 basically means, undefined, so the variable won't be used. 
Easiest fix is to use, 2 instead. 

=head2 Solaris, Dada Mail, and You.

There seems to be continued file locking issues with Dada Mail and Solaris, including mass mailing. We do not have any
current workarounds and we ask that you exercise caution when using Dada Mail on Solaris. Run the testing suite to make 
sure Dada Mail is working correclty with your environment. 

=head2 Send a Webpage

=head3 Assets w/URLS w/Query Strings break

If you're trying to send a webpage with an image, javascript library or stylesheet with a query string ala: 

 <script src="http://example.com/script.js?ver=1234" ></script> 

The, "Send a Webpage" function of Dada Mail most likely won't understand what to do with this and most likely will ignore and remove the script, image or stylesheet. 

=head1 Templates

=head2 The Bracket Problem

Dada Mail's original templating system uses tags that looked a lot like this, 

 [tag]

A string, with no white space, surrounded by brackets. Dada Mail still supports these types of tags, but you can run into problems, particularly with email messages, where a part of your message may I<look> like a tag in Dada Mail and will be templated out - essentially to nothing. This has the problem of removing content from your message. 

There's a few things you can do: 

=over

=item * Set, $TEMPLATE_SETTINGS->{oldstyle_backwards_compatibility} to, 0

If you're using version 4 or higher of Dada Mail, in the config, find the $TEMPLATE_SETTINGS hashref: 

 $TEMPLATE_SETTINGS ||= { 
 	oldstyle_backwards_compatibility => 1, 
 };

change, 1 to 0: 

 $TEMPLATE_SETTINGS ||= { 
 	oldstyle_backwards_compatibility => 1, 
} ;

and no more problems. 

It's suggested you I<only> do this if you are installing from scratch and not upgrading. If you are upgrading, make dead-sure you do not have any templates of any kind, since they will magically not work anymore. 

See also: 

http://dadamailproject.com/support/documentation-4_0_2/Config.pm.html#_template_settings

=item * Don't use square brackets this way

This advice is horrible advice, since you're having to deal with a deficiency of the program. We apologize. 

=item * Use, <!-- tmpl_var LEFT_BRACKET ---> and, <!-- tmpl_var RIGHT_BRACKET --> 

There's two template tags you can use in your email messages: 

 <!-- tmpl_var LEFT_BRACKET --> 

and, 

 <!-- tmpl_var RIGHT_BRACKET --> 

If you need to have a string in your message that looks like this: 

 [looks_like_a_tag]

you can write it out, like this: 

 <!-- tmpl_var LEFT_BRACKET -->looks_like_a_tag<!-- tmpl_var RIGHT_BRACKET --> 

And Dada Mail will replace those template tags, with left and right brackets, doing what you want to do. 


=back






=cut

