=pod

=head1 Thanks

A small list of people that helped out the development of Dada Mail

If anyone is forgotten, please tap me on the shoulder -> dada@skazat.com

I'll be more than happy to put you on the list!

=over

=item * Mark Stosberg and Chris Hardy at http://summersault.com

Summersault is the host for the Dada Mail support site and have also given much insight on the development of the script. Thanks again, guys. 

=item * Brian Hansen 

My former boss, Brian saw quite a bit of potential in Dada Mail and the company has used it in commercial applications and Brian himself has done much to support the program out. 

=item * Earl Ruby of http://knowledgematters.net

Earl Ruby took over the administration of the Dada Mail discussion lists

=item * Steve Mallett of http://OSDir.com

Steve was generous enough to interview Justin Simoni  for Oreilly's Open Source Directory Site. 

=item * Jim Thomason thomasoniii@yahoo.com

Jim wrote the Mail::Bulkmail module, which is the hyper fast SMTP mail sender. It's some pretty hot code and does much of the heavy lifting in Dada Mail. 

=item * ryq eryq@zeegee.com

Dada Mail uses the MIME::Lite module, to make all those pretty HTML and multipart/alternative messages and we're all pretty happy about that.

=item * Bruce Kallick

Thanks to Bruce from http://rudegnu.com for catching grammatical mistakes, of mine and speling errors. 

=back

Thanks for anyone and everyone else that has supported the program along its merry way.

- I<Justin Simoni> 

=cut

