=head1 NAME Programming Code Styling for Dada Mail! 

=head1 DESCRIPTION 

This document is to help in understanding how Dada Mail is written. 

Some of the main goals for these guidelines are to: 

=over

=item * Make it easier for multiple people to work on the same project at once

=item * Make it easier to test and debug the program or parts of the program

=item * Set a bar on the level of code Kwelity

=back


=pod

=head1 Perl

=over

=item * All code must run under the -T (taint) flag. No exceptions. 

=item * All code, unless specifically noted, should be able to run given the system requirements of Dada Mail.

If any of the code does not, the specific function must be optional. For 
example, a simple way to see if sending a webpage is supported is to eval() 
the LWP::Simple module. If it returns no errors, we can use the subroutine 
that depends on it. For example: 

 my $can_use_lwp_simple; 
 eval { require LWP::Simple; };
 $can_use_lwp_simple = 1	
 	if !$@;

If there is simply no workaround, the best thing to do would be to make a 
specific plugin/extension that has the wanted functionality. 

This also encapsulates OS-specific features. For the moment, Dada Mail is 
Unix-centric and does not work reliably on Windows platforms.

=item * NO inline HTML

There I<is> inline HTML in Dada Mail - we know. It's old code that's 
currently being pulled out of the program. No new inline HTML code will 
be accepted into Dada Mail. None. Nada. Zip. 

Please see code that refers to the DADA::Template::Widgets "screen" 
subroutine for ways to hook in HTML::Template with Dada Mail. See the 
HTML::Template documentation at: 

http://search.cpan.org/~samtregar/HTML-Template/Template.pm

For information on how to work with HTML::Template documents 
(hint: it's pretty easy) 

=item * Code Style

While there is no main Perl code style for Dada Mail, code for readability 
over anything else; code for expandability of features rather than 
succinctness.

Any advice given in I<Perl Best Practices> by Damian Conway is good advice by us:

http://www.oreilly.com/catalog/perlbp/index.html

=back

=head1 XHTML

Must be valid XHTML 1.0 Transitional

=over

=item * A good summary of XHTML (and how to get there) is available at:

 http://www.w3schools.com/xhtml/xhtml_html.asp

=item * XHTML 1.0 Strict is great if you can manage it

...but not always realistic in practice. For the differences between 
Strict and Transitional, see:

 http://liorean.web-graphics.com/xhtml/comparison.loose-strict.html

=back

=head1 HTML::Template Templates 

HTML::Template is the templating language used for most all of Dada 
Mail's screens. Currently there is I<some> inline HTML and we'd like 
to get rid of all of this ASAP. 

Currently, there are three categories of templates. The first category 
is for the different top-level (X)HTML document/page types. And the 
latter two categories, which are the bits and pieces that then get 
included into those top-level templates, are Dada Mail-centric.

=over

=item 1. top-level templates

Templates that end in "template.tmpl" are the "document containers" for 
the various types of pages/screens in Dada Mail. Or to put it another 
way: these are the ones we'd add an ".html" extension to if it weren't 
for their HTML::Template includes.

These document containers include the bare-minimum (X)HTML structure for 
the document (e.g.: the doctype, head, and body), plus the general 
structure of the type of page in question (for instance, separate #Header 
and #Content sections for list_template.tmpl). 

A few extra <div> and <span> "wrappers" can also be found in some of 
these templates, for CSS customization and cross-browser bugfixing 
purposes. To keep things as clean and user-friendly as possible, we'd 
like to keep these "extra" structural wrappers meaningful (like the #Logo 
and #Title wrappers inside the #Header), and to a minimum (no redundant 
divs-within-divs, unless there's a I<really> good reason). [At the 
moment, this is still a work in progress.] 

=item 2. screens

Templates that end in "screen.tmpl" are basically the chunks of code 
that get inserted into the top-level document templates, and that contain 
all the interesting, screen-specific content you'll see in your web browser.

NO screens should have form field without a <form></form> tag pair 
surrounding the form. DO NOT assume that there will be these tags available. 

=item 3. widgets

Templates that end in "widget.tmpl" are parts of a whole screen, and are 
usually inserted into a screen or another widget using the 
<!-- tmpl_include ... --> tag. 

The whole idea of a widget is to allow you to use the same snippet of code 
in more than one template.

If the widget has part of a form in it - i.e.: an input tag of some type - 
please document this fact somewhere near the top of the script, as it aids 
debugging. 

NO widgets are allowed to have a unpaired form tag. 

=back

=cut

# thoughts on the above: 
# 
# * Even though it's iframed into a screen (arguably, much like a widget), "iframed_archive_screen.tmpl" 
#   is probably best described as a "top-level" template based on the descriptions above. As I've 
#   mentioned elsewhere, I'd like to see it renamed to "archived_message_iframe_template.tmpl", once we 
#   make the move to darcs and file renaming becomes easier. 
# 
#   The remainder of this suggested name change will make it alphabetize better with 
#   "archived_message_print_template.tmpl", once we/I get around to building it. :) 
# 
# * I'm thinkin' that "rss_91.tmpl" should also be called a "_template", and "subscription_check_xml.tmpl" 
#   and "unsubscription_check_xml.tmpl" be called "_screen"s, for much the same reasons. 
# 
# * Basically, these two comments are just a TODO: reminder of the work I started at: 
#   http://a-ok.net/dadadev/2.10.X-suggested_template_renaming.html 
#   , so I don't forget about it. :) 
# 
# -sc 

=pod

=head2 begin/end comments in HTML::Template templates

When making a new template, always put a: 

 <!-- begin templatename.tmpl --> 

tag at the beginning of the file and a: 

 <!-- end templatename.tmpl --> 

tag at the end of the file. This makes it easy for developers and end-users 
alike to debug or customize things by reading the output source code (using 
their browser's "view source" feature) and tracking any line back to the 
template that created it.

=head1 CSS

Must be valid, unless it's an absolutely unavoidable hack. 

Absolutely unavoidable hacks must be well-commented.

=head1 JavaScript

We really I<ought to> avoid the six "bad practices" at:

 http://www.quirksmode.org/blog/archives/2005/06/three_javascrip_1.html

but we haven't quite gotten to #6 yet (I'm thinking here of the admin 
template's: <body onLoad="init();"> ). And similarly, we should probably 
also be shooting for "unobstrusive JavaScript" as per:

 http://www.onlinetools.org/articles/unobtrusivejavascript/

but on that front, we're not even close.

Assistance and experience here would be greatly appreciated. :-)

=head1 Commenting Code

=head2 begin/end comments in HTML::Template templates

These are the, 

 <!-- begin templatename.tmpl --> 

and: 

 <!-- end templatename.tmpl --> 

Already discussed. 

=head2 Other

Several other proposed labels have been put into place for development 
purposes. All are B<optional>.

=over

=item * DEV:/DEV

As of this writing, "DEV:" - usually with the colon, and often ending 
with the writer's initials - is being used to label temporary 
inter-developer communication. For example:

 <!-- DEV: added a flaming GIF logo here. what do you think? -js -->

The use of this in combination with TODO has some inter-developer 
requesting possiblities as well:

 <!-- DEV: TODO: I need a custom variable here instead of this placeholder, 
      but don't have the Perl chops to create it. 
      (P.S. - What *is* a chop, anyway?) -sc 
 -->
 <!-- DEV: The chop() function in Perl chops off the last character 
      of a string and returns the character chopped.  Yuck yuck yuck yuck. 
      
      More seriously, it's better to use the chomp() subroutine. noob. 
      -js
 --> 
 
Generally speaking, all DEV:s should be grokked, resolved and deleted 
before a stable release. 

B<TIP:> A quick and dirty way to find out all the DEV: comments would be 
to use the grep utility, like so: 

 grep -r DEV: dada

where, "dada" is the name of your Dada Mail directory. 

B<BBEdit> also has the, I<Multi-File-Search> option. 

=item * HACK 

Used to denote that a particular coding style isn't something that 
should be followed, but works on the current situation. 

A small description should follow the label, allowing people insight on 
why a hack was put in place. For example: 

 # HACK - too drunk. 

or,

 # HACK This is old code, put in here where listshortnames were the same as list names and both 
 # could have spaces in the names. This should be looked at, removed and tested soon.
 $args{-List} =~ s/ /_/i if $args{-List}; 

=item * HOWTO 

Used to provide a helping hand for folks getting their feet wet in 
customizing Dada Mail. For example (in mail.cgi):

 # HOWTO: 
 # To make the default message subject on the "Send a Message" screen
 # read: "yourlistname" (without the quotes), change the above variable to:
 # 
 # my $message_subject = $li->{list_name};

Basically, HOWTO provides an instructional bridge for people who want to 
go beyond the customization options available in Config.pm, default.css,
and the default templates, but who aren't yet Perl (or Dada Mail) experts.
Whether or not you use the HOWTO flag, doing this here and there is a really 
nice afterthought if you have the time and inclination.

It may be up to the developers to apply the HOWTO labels after a release of 
a stable distribution, based on answers to questions put forth by users that 
are pushing the features that Dada Mail does make easily available. These 
labels could then be compiled in a interesting list of cool things to do 
with Dada Mail, or reviewed to see if any of the features talked about 
could - or should - be more easily accessible.

=item * TODO 

Marks an area that needs work. 

=back

Any other ideas are appreciated. I'd rather have TOO MUCH commenting going 
on than too little. 

=head1 CVS

When you're comitting via CVS and working on a bug/feature request, 
please put the id of the bug/feature request in the comment of the commit. 

A more verbose commit comment is appreciated, as these commits are combed to 
make the changelog.


