=head1 NAME

Mail::Send - Simple electronic mail interface

=head1 INHERITANCE

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  require Mail::Send;

  $msg = Mail::Send->new;
  $msg = Mail::Send->new(Subject => 'example', To => 'timbo');

  $msg->to('user@host');
  $msg->to('user@host', 'user2@example.com');
  $msg->subject('example subject');
  $msg->cc('user@host');
  $msg->bcc('someone@else');

  $msg->set($header, @values);
  $msg->add($header, @values);
  $msg->delete($header);

  # Launch mailer and set headers. The filehandle returned
  # by open() is an instance of the Mail::Mailer class.
  # Arguments to the open() method are passed to the Mail::Mailer
  # constructor.

  $fh = $msg->open;   # some default mailer
  $fh = $msg->open('sendmail'); # explicit
  print $fh "Body of message";
  $fh->close;         # complete the message and send it

=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<Mail::Send|Mail::Send> creates e-mail messages without using the L<Mail::Header|Mail::Header>
knowledge, which means that all escaping and folding must be done by
you!  Simplicity has its price.

When you have time, take a look at Mail::Transport

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

Mail::Send-E<gt>B<new>(PAIRS)

=over 4

A list of header fields (provided as key-value PAIRS) can be
used to initialize the object.

=back

=head2 Header fields

$obj-E<gt>B<add>(FIELDNAME, VALUES)

=over 4

Add values to the list of defined values for the FIELDNAME.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<bcc>(VALUES)

=over 4

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<cc>(VALUES)

=over 4

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<delete>(FIELDNAME)

=over 4

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<set>(FIELDNAME, VALUES)

=over 4

VALUES will replace the old values for the FIELDNAME.  Returned is
the LIST of values after modification.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<subject>(VALUES)

=over 4

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<to>(VALUES)

=over 4

=back

=head2 Sending

$obj-E<gt>B<open>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

The OPTIONS are used to initiate a mailer object via
L<Mail::Mailer::new()|Mail::Mailer/"Constructors">.  Then L<Mail::Mailer::open()|Mail::Mailer/"Constructors"> is called
with the knowledge collected in this Mail::Send object.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of the MailTools distribution,
F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailtools/>.

=head1 AUTHORS

The MailTools bundle was developed by Graham Barr.  Later, Mark
Overmeer took over maintenance without development.

Mail::Cap by Gisle Aas E<lt>aas@oslonett.noE<gt>.
Mail::Field::AddrList by Peter Orbaek E<lt>poe@cit.dkE<gt>.
Mail::Mailer and Mail::Send by Tim Bunce E<lt>Tim.Bunce@ig.co.ukE<gt>.
For other contributors see ChangeLog.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 1995-2000 Graham Barr E<lt>gbarr@pobox.comE<gt> and
2001-2007 Mark Overmeer E<lt>perl@overmeer.netE<gt>.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

