=pod

=head1 SOAP Web Services for Dada Mail Proof of Concept

You should be able to find these files in the Dada Mail distro, under, I<dada/extras/scripts/SOAP> 

and should include, 

=over

=item * a CGI SOAP server, written in Perl that ties into the Dada Mail API. (soap_server.cgi)

=item * a SOAP client written in Perl (soap_client.cgi)

=item * a SOAP client, written in php (soap_client.php)

=back 

=head1 API Currently the SOAP API only provides B<two> methods: 

=over 

=item * subscription_check

C<subscription_check> works much like this method

http://dadamailproject.com/d/MailingList_Subscribers.pm.html#subscription_check


=item * subscribe

C<subscribe> works much like if you submitted your own email address into a Dada Mail form, except it won't return HTML. 

=back

=head1 Introduction

The SOAP interface allows programs written in languages other than Perl and/or located on a separate system to interact with Dada Mail. This type of web service could theoretically work with most any of Dada Mail's high level functions: Validating Subscriptions, Subscribing Mailing List Subscribers, Sending Messages, working with archived messages, etc. 

I<This> small set of scripts is only to be as an example to show that it is entirely possible. 

=head1 Requirements 

The Perl server and the Perl client requires the SOAP::Lite CPAN distro: 

http://www.soaplite.com/

http://search.cpan.org/~mkutter/SOAP-Lite-0.710.08/

The php client requires the PEAR SOAP distro: 

http://pear.php.net/package/SOAP

=head1 Installation

Place both the soap_server.cgi and soap_client.cgi into the, "dada" directory of your working Dada Mail installation. Change the permissions of both to, "755". 

Place the soap_client.php file somewhere on your website, however you php folks do it. 

=head1 Configuration

Both the, soap_client.php and soap_client.cgi scripts have *three* variables you may have to change: 

=over 

=item *  $proxy 

This should hold the URL to the soap_server.cgi script

=item * $email

This should hold an email address you'd like to validate

=item *  $list

This should hold a Dada Mail list shortname you'd like to validate against

=back

=head1 Running

The soap_client.cgi and soap_client.php scripts can be run simply by visiting them in a webserver. Doing so will print a simple report, like so: 

 	* Email: user@example.com
 	* List: mylist
 
 Subscription Check: 0
 Errors: 
 	* Error: already_sent_sub_confirmation
 	* Error: subscribed
 done.

And, that's it. 

=head1 The Future of SOAP Web Services in Dada Mail

It would be great to have some sort of Web Service available for Dada Mail. It will have to depend on user and developer interest in accomplishing this. 

If you are interested in commissioning this feature, in part or in whole, please contact me at: 

http://dadamailproject.com/contact/